---
layout: post
title: landor
---

Businessmodel of Landor
------------------------

### Customer Segments

Landor has a mass market business model, with no significant differentiation between customer segments. The company targets its offering at firms across industries and sizes.

### Value Proposition

Landor offers three primary value propositions: accessibility, performance, and brand/status.

The company creates accessibility by offering a wide variety of options. Since its founding, it has expanded its portfolio to provide a wide range of services. These services are divided into the following categories: insights & analytics, strategy & positioning, brand architecture, naming & verbal identity, innovation, identity & design, experiences & environments, brand engagement, and interactive & media design. Landor is also available in numerous locations – it operates 27 offices in 21 countries across North America, South America, Europe, Asia, Africa, and Australia.

The company has demonstrated strong performance through tangible results. High-profile examples of positive outcomes for clients include the following:

 * Marks & Spencer used Landor’s services to develop a brand campaign for its partnership with global charity Oxfam, resulting in 64% ad awareness, compared to 30% for a typical M&S ad
* Citroën used Landor’s services to carry out a complete brand transformation, resulting in an 8% increase in sales within a year and 69% of French citizens naming it their top auto brand
* Indonesian airline Garuda used Landor’s services to create a new visual identity system (impacting airport and airplane interiors), resulting in an increase in premium passengers
 The company has established a strong brand due to its success. It pioneered several of the research, consulting, and design methods that are now considered standard in the branding industry. In 1994 the National Museum of American History, part of the famed Smithsonian Institution, established the Walter Landor/Landor Associates Collection. It features the founder’s personal papers and business records. Landor has many prominent clients, including numerous members of the *Fortune *500, such as Barclays, BMW, FedEx, General Electric,  Microsoft, PepsiCo, Procter & Gamble, and Samsung. Lastly, it has won a number of honors, including five Lion awards at the Cannes Lions International Festival (2015), Gold International Design Awards, Gold Pentawards, and Bronze CLIO Awards.

### Channels

Landor’s main channel is its business development team. The company promotes its offering through its social media pages and participation in conferences.

### Customer Relationships

Landor’s customer relationship is primarily of a dedicated personal assistance nature. It works closely with clients in order to develop branding strategy and campaigns. That said, there is a self-service component. The company’s website features a “Thinking” section that includes articles, reports, and and blog posts on the industry. It also provides access to an e-mail newsletter with updates.

### Key Activities

Landor’s business model entails designing and developing services for its clients.

### Key Partners

Landor does not maintain any formal partnership programs.

### Key Resources

Landor’s main resources are its human resources, who include creative professionals such as writers, artists, designers, and marketers.

### Cost Structure

Landor has a value-driven structure, aiming to provide a premium proposition through significant personal service and frequent service enhancements. Its biggest cost driver is likely cost of services, a variable expense. Other major drivers are in the areas of sales/marketing and customer support/operations, both fixed costs.

### Revenue Streams

Landor has one revenue stream: revenues it generates from the fees it charges its clients for access to its range of branding services.
