---
layout: post
title: essence
---

Businessmodel of Essence
-------------------------

### Customer Segments

Essence Digital has a mass market business model, with no significant differentiation between customer segments. The company targets its offerings at firms of all industries and sizes.

### Value Proposition

Essence Digital offers four primary value propositions: accessibility, risk reduction, performance, and brand/status.

The company creates accessibility by offering a wide variety of options. It offers a comprehensive digital marketing solution, with services including search marketing, social media advertising, website and app development, eCommerce, data analytics, and automated ad-buying. Its media team can create connections regardless of media type – earned, paid, owned, and borrowed.

The company reduces risk by providing clients with beginning-to-end visibility on costs, agency fees, commitment, and performance.

The company demonstrates strong performance through tangible results. High-profile examples of positive outcomes for specific clients include the following:

 * Pret A Manger used Essence Digital’s services to develop a new mobile website, resulting in 235,000 page views and 52,000 visitors within the first month despite no formal advertising
* Method used Essence Digital’s services to design a new cross-channel advertising strategy, resulting in a 142% lift in unaided awareness and a 5-7 point increase in purchase intent goals
* Google used Essence Digital’s services to increase awareness of its Google Store, resulting in over nine million views and increases of 38% in awareness and 50% in purchase consideration
* The Financial Times used Essence Digital’s services to attract younger subscribers and increase efficiencies, resulting in a 110% growth in marketing-driven subscriptions year-over-year and a 24% reduction in cost per subscriber.
 The company has established a strong brand due to its success. It has over 540 employees, with its staff speaking more than 30 different languages. It manages more than $850 million a year in digital ad spending, and implements campaigns in 71 markets across the world. Its prominent clients include Google, eBay, YouTube, Expedia, HP, Tesco Mobile, and the *Financial Times*. It oversees promotion for five of the top 50 apps worldwide. Lastly, it has won many honors, including *AdWeek’s *Project Isaac Award for Media Planning Invention (2016) and two MMA Smarties Awards (2016).

### Channels

Essence Digital’s main channels are its direct sales team and its website. The company promotes its offering through its social media pages and participation in conferences.

### Customer Relationships

Essence Digital’s customer relationship is primarily of a dedicated personal assistance nature. The company works closely with client staff to develop digital marketing strategies.

### Key Activities

Essence Digital’s business model entails designing and developing its services for clients.

### Key Partners

Essence Digital does not maintain any formal partnership programs.

### Key Resources

Essence Digital’s main resources are its human employees, who include the analytics teams that use data science to solve problems and the media teams that offer creative services.

### Cost Structure

Essence Digital has a value-driven structure, aiming to provide a premium proposition through significant personal service.

Its biggest cost driver is likely cost of services, a variable expense. Other major drivers are in the areas of sales/marketing and customer support/operations, both fixed expenses.

### Revenue Streams

Essence Digital has one revenue stream: revenues it generates from the fees it charges to clients for access to its services. Company staff must be contacted directly for specific pricing information.
