---
layout: post
title: aginity
---

Businessmodel of Aginity
-------------------------

### Customer Segments

Aginity has a mass market business model, with no significant differentiation between customer segments. The company targets its offerings at organizations of all industries and sizes.

### Value Proposition

Aginity offers four primary value propositions: accessibility, convenience, performance, and brand/status.

The company creates accessibility by providing a wide variety of options. Its Aginity Workbench solution works across various systems, including Hadoop, dashDB, Big SQL, Amazon Redshift, Pivotal Greenplum, and IBM PureData for Analytics (Netezza).

The company creates convenience by making life simpler for clients. Its Aginity Amp solution catalogs all of a client’s analytics and data in an accessible software layer so that any individual user can build, edit, and reuse the assets. This enables quicker investigation of inconsistencies across applications.

The company demonstrates strong performance through tangible results. It claims its Aginity Amp solution offers the following benefits:

 * 50-75% increase in data scientist and analyst productivity
* 10x-100x efficiency through analytic reuse
* Up to 90% decrease in analytics-related operational costs
 The company has established a strong brand due to its success. Its Aginity Workbench solution is used by over 60,000 data analysts, developers, and DBAs across most *Forbes *2000 companies. Aginity’s specific clients include Orkin and Homemakers. The company has also won a number of honors, including a 2017 IBM North America Top Independent Software Vendor Leadership Award.

### Channels

Aginity’s main channel is its direct sales team. The company promotes its offerings through its website, social media pages, and participation in events such as summits and conferences.

### Customer Relationships

Aginity’s customer relationship is primarily of a self-service, automated nature. Customers utilize its products while having limited interaction with employees. The company’s website features a “Support” section with product documentation.

That said, there is a personal assistance component in the form of phone and e-mail support. There is also a community element in the form of a forum.

### Key Activities

Aginity’s business model entails designing and developing its products for customers.

### Key Partners

Aginity’s key partners are the firms that provide support for the deployment of its software. Specific partners include Hortonworks, Cloudera, and IBM.

### Key Resources

Aginity’s main resources are its human resources, who include the engineers that design and develop its solutions, the sales employees that promote them, and the customer service personnel that provide support.

As a startup it has relied on funding from outside parties, raising $13.8 million as of December 2015.

### Cost Structure

Aginity has a cost-driven structure, aiming to minimize expenses through significant automation. Its biggest cost driver is likely sales/marketing costs, a fixed expense.

Other major drivers are in the areas of administration and customer support/operations, both fixed costs.

### Revenue Streams

Aginity has one revenue stream: revenues it generates from the sale of its software products to customers.
