---
layout: post
title: infogain
---

Businessmodel of Infogain
--------------------------

### Customer Segments

Infogain has a segmented market business model, with customer groups that have slightly different needs. The company targets its offerings at firms in the retail, insurance, high technology, travel & hospitality, and healthcare & life sciences industries.

### Value Proposition

Infogain offers four primary value propositions: accessibility, innovation, risk reduction, and brand/status.

The company creates accessibility by providing a wide variety of options. It provides solutions for front-end, customer-facing processes, technologies, and applications. Its range of offerings is broad and includes cloud services, business analytics, knowledge management, usability engineering, enterprise business solutions, digital transformation, SOA & enterprise integration, port logistics, testing servicess, and application development & maintenance services.

The company has embraced innovation throughout its history. It claims to have completed the first implementation of Knowledge Advance (KA) and the first third-party implementation of Oracle POS.

The company reduces risk by maintaining high quality and security standards. Its delivery center in India is ISO/IEC 27001:2013 certified and its centers in Mumbai and Bangalore are CMMi5 certified.

The company has established a strong brand due to its success. It has completed over 100 CRM project implementations. It serves five of the world’s largest 50 firms, 20 of the largest 1,000 enterprises, and 24 members of the *Fortune *500.

It has million-dollar engagements with more than 25 customers, many of whom have been clients for five years or more. Its customer satisfaction scores have remained above 4 on a 5 point scale for eight out of ten quarters.

It has maintained customer retention rates of over 90% over a five-year period. It has 4,000 employees worldwide operating out of offices in the U.S., India, UK, Dubai, Singapore, and Malaysia. Lastly, it has won a number of honors, including the following:

 * Recognition as one of the “20 Most Promising Software Testing Solution Providers 2016” by CIOReview
* Recognition as an “Established Niche Player” in a ranking of Service Providers in the ER&D segment by Zinnov Management Consulting
* Two HR Awards at the Times Ascent World HRD Congress event, including “Dream Company to Work for – 2017” in the Organizational Award category
 ### Channels

Infogain’s main channel is its direct sales team. The company promotes its offerings through its website, social media pages, and participation in webinars, summits, and conferences.

### Customer Relationships

Infogain’s customer relationship is primarily of a self-service, automated nature. Customers utilize its products while having limited interaction with employees. That said, there is a personal assistance component in the form of consulting assistance and 24x7 phone customer service.

### Key Activities

Infogain’s business model entails designing and developing its products for customers.

### Key Partners

Infogain maintains strategic and technology partnerships with top enterprise software providers through which it collaborates on developing solutions in order to provide greater value for its clients. Its specfici partners include:

 * Strategic Partners - Oracle, Microsoft, Salesforce, Coveo, SAS, Qlik, Indoors, Xamarin, XCCommerce, Sabre Travel Network, Mystifly, Loyalty Prime, and Loyalty Partner Solutions
* Technology Partners –Salesforce, Sencha, jQuery, PhoneGap, and Jive
 ### Key Resources

Infogain’s main resources are its human resources, who include the engineers that design and develop its products, the sales employees that promote it, the consultants that provide advisory services, and the customer service personnel that provide support.

It maintains important physical resources in the form of nine delivery centers located worldwide.

Lastly, it has relied on funding from outside parties, raising $63 million from seven investors as of August 2015.

### Cost Structure

Infogain has a cost-driven structure, aiming to minimize expenses through significant automation. Its biggest cost driver is likely sales/marketing, a fixed expense. Other major drivers are in the areas of customer support/operations and product development, both fixed costs.

### Revenue Streams

Infogain has one revenue stream: revenues it generates from the sale of its products to customers.
