---
layout: post
title: datameer
---

Businessmodel of Datameer
--------------------------

### Customer Segments

Datameer serves clients that require accurate analysis of big data presented in an easily-accessed, manageable and insightful format. This primarily includes big name companies – primarily from the US and Europe – that operate within the aviation, gaming, healthcare, financial services, telecoms, retail, security, automotive and technology sectors, among others.

Datameer’s website includes testimonials from high-profile customers such as American Express, BT, Citi Group, American Airlines, Sears, Telefonica, Comcast and the USA Olympic Team.

### Value Propositions

Datameer’s value is based upon the reliability, efficiency and accuracy of its analytics products, as well as the flexibility and ease with which it can be accessed.

The Company’s products provide complex data analysis and insights but does not require any technical expertise, making its products popular among big businesses that require analytics to be presented by non-technical staff members.

The Company’s end-to-end products also allow data to be presented in an easily-digested yet informative way, eliminating the need for customers to use multiple analytics and visualisation products.

Datameer products allow for integration with third-party service providers and can be accessed either via the cloud or through on site installation.

### Channels

Information regarding Datameer’s products can be found on the Company’s mobile and desktop websites at www.datameer.com, where its most basic subscription package can be acquired.

Customer accounts can also be managed and altered through the Datameer website. Once purchased, the Company’s products can be downloaded directly to be used on site or can be accessed via the cloud.

Datameer functionality can also be accessed through a range of third-party integrated applications.

### Customer Relationships

Datameer’s most basic package is available via the Company’s website as a self-service product, with no intervention from Datameer representatives. Its more advanced cloud and enterprise subscriptions must be negotiated with members of the Datameer sales team directly, in order to provide a service tailored to the individual requirements of each customer. After purchase, however, these products are also self-service.

Datameer customers are provided support through the Company’s Help Centre and its learning sub-section, which provide a range of resources including tutorials, technical documentation, case studies, tips and troubleshooting guides. This is supplemented by the Company’s support team which provides assistance on a case by case basis.

The Datameer University, where users can enrol in self-paced online courses, and Datameer Certification provide additional training for the Company’s customers.

In addition, Datameer also hosts a community section, where users can interact with one another, collaborate on and discuss technical issues. The Company also updates its customers with developments through its blog, as well as its Twitter, Google+, and LinkedIn profiles.

### Key Activities

Datameer develops, maintains and sells big data analytics products purpose-built for Hadoop frameworks. Its offerings comprise big data integration, big data analytics, big data visualisation, cloud, and smart analytics products.

The Company also offers a smart execution service, which selects and combines computation frameworks for Datameer workloads, and smart analytics, which provides advanced functionality, including clustering, decision trees and column dependencies.

Additionally, Datameer partners with a number of companies to broaden its marketing and sales network, create integrated solutions, and provide collaborative analytics services to larger clients.

### Key Partners

Datameer partners with a variety of companies, primarily those operating within the technology space, in order to provide the most efficient and reliable products to its customers.

The Company collaborates with authorised resellers, referral partners, consulting partners, original equipment manufacturers and analytics companies. Its tech partners also include Hadoop service providers and distributors, cloud platform providers, systems integrators and developers.

In recent years Datameer has partnered with Dell for Hadoop integration, enterprise software company MapR for joint technology and marketing projects, IT solutions company Carahsoft for the provision of analytics and insights for government bodies, and analytics firm Cirrus Seven for enterprise analytics systems.

### Key Resources

Datameer’s key resources relate principally to the development, maintenance and operation of its analytics platform. This comprises its proprietary technology, its IT infrastructure – including its network of servers and data centres – and its engineering and development personnel.

While the Company’s technology is key, searches of records held by the US Patent and Trademark Office identified no patent applications registered in Datameer’s name.

The Company’s sales and marketing and support teams also play an important role in Datameer’s operations.

### Cost Structure

Datameer’s principal costs are incurred through the maintenance and development of its platform, operation costs related to its IT infrastructure network, and retention of its personnel.

The Company accrues fixed rental costs for its server and office space, and pays salaries and benefits to its workforce of sales staff support staff and engineers, who are estimated to number around 100.

### Revenue Streams

Datameer generates revenue through the sale of annual subscriptions to its big data analytics platform. The Company offers three flagship products: Datameer Personal, Datameer Cloud and Datameer Enterprise.

Only Datameer Personal is available as a self-service product directly from the Company’s website, priced at $25 per month. The price of the Datameer Cloud and Datameer Enterprise services must be negotiated with the Company directly. Some reports suggest that enterprise contracts can cost upwards of $100,000 per year.

Recent reports estimate that Datameer’s revenue is recorded at around $100 million per year.
