---
layout: post
title: neusoft
---

Businessmodel of Neusoft
-------------------------

### Customer Segments

Neusoft offers a wide range of software solutions to commercial and institutional customers across multiple business sectors. The Company states that it provides solutions to customers across the following industries:

 * Telecommunications, including telecommunications providers, communications carriers, data service providers, and internet service providers;
* Financial Services, including banking institutions, financial service providers, commodity and stock exchanges, credit finance institutions, and asset managers;
* Energy, including power generation companies, and power transmission providers;
* Manufacturing, including large and mid-sized manufacturers of products, components, and parts across multiple industries, including the consumer goods and automotive sectors;
* Education, including a range of universities and colleges across the US;
* Healthcare, including healthcare providers, medical technology companies, health service companies, and producers and distributors of medical equipment; and
* Transportation and Logistics, including container logistics service providers, transportation service companies, and toll operators.
 Neusoft names a number of its customers on its website. This includes People’s Bank of China, the Shanghai Stock Exchange, Agricultural Bank of China, and Dongfeng Peugeot Citroen Automobile Finance Company.

Neusoft’s key market is its native China, where it serves an extensive customer base. The Company also serves customers across the US, Europe, the Middle East, and the rest of the Asia Pacific region.

### Value Propositions

Neusoft provides value to its clients in the following ways:

 * Its industry standing and reputation, with the Company established, particularly within China, as a leading provider of enterprise software and integration services, serving a number of high-profile client such as the Shanghai Stock Exchange and the Bank of China;
* Its extensive portfolio of products and solutions, with the Company offering a broad range of software solutions that cater to the various needs of clients across multiple industries, including the financial services, transportation and logistics, and energy sectors;
* Its proprietary technologies, with the Company developing and utilising a range of proprietary technologies in the development and implementation of its products that make its offerings unique within the industry; and
* Its industry expertise and experience, with the Company employing teams of highly-trained technical personnel that are able to offer effective support services, as well as experienced industry executives.
 ### Channels

Neusoft operates a website at www.neusoft.com, through which it provides information on its various products and solutions, ancillary services, target industries, and operating locations. The Company does not operate an online sales portal, nor does it operate an online client portal that allows customers to access tools and resources. In addition to its software products, Neusoft offers several mobile applications.

Neusoft makes sales through a direct sales force that is organised across several geographic regions. The Company’s sales personnel operate out of a network of sales and administrative offices located across Asia Pacific, Europe, North America, and the Middle East, including in the US, the UAE, Japan, and Germany.  These sales personnel can be contacted over the phone or via email.

Neusoft additionally makes sales through a network of channel and distribution partners. This includes various value added resellers, distributors, and independent software vendors.

### Customer Relationships

Neusoft does not offer products and solutions to customers on a self-service basis. Instead, the Company makes sales directly to clients through its own in-house direct sales force, as well as through various channel and distribution partners.

The Company’s sales personnel consult directly with clients in order to ascertain their individual needs and circumstances, with the Company offering tailored services where possible. Neusoft seeks to provide solutions that become a key aspect of its clients’s systems, establishing longstanding commercial relationships.

Neusoft provides ongoing support to its clients, with dedicated technical support staff offering personalised assistance with various product issues. Customers can contact the Company’s support personnel over the phone or via email, or alternatively can access a range of online resources. Neusoft additionally lists its schedule of upcoming events, enabling customers to attend and interact with representatives of the Company directly.

### Key Activities

Neusoft is a software development company that is engaged primarily in the provision of software and system integration services to commercial and institutional clients across multiple sectors, including the financial services, healthcare, education, energy, and logistics sectors, among others. Neusoft’s products include human resource management systems, online learning management systems, customer relationship management systems, and enterprise asset management system.

The Company is headquartered in China, which remains its core market. It also operates a network of offices across North America, Europe, the Middle East, and other markets across Asia Pacific.

### Key Partners

Neusoft works in close conjunction with a range of partner companies and organisations that assist in ensuring the Company provides effective products in a reliable way. These partners can be organised broadly into the following categories:

 * Supplier and Vendor Partners, comprising suppliers of services, tools, technologies, and equipment that are utilised across the enterprise in support of its development and implementation of software solutions;
* Software and Technology Partners, comprising a range of software companies and technology that assist the company in developing and delivering its solutions, and provide various consulting and advisory services;
* Channel and Distribution Partners, comprising the Company’s network of value added resellers, authorised distributors, and independent sales agents that assist in extending the Company’s own sales and marketing reach; and
* Strategic and Alliance Partners, comprising various market leading companies across multiple sectors that work with the Company on a range of join projects, including in marketing, branding and development.
 Neusoft names a number of its key partners on its website. This list includes a number of high profile companies, such as Hitachi, Sony, Microsoft, VMWare, SAP, IBM, Boeing, Cisco, Oracle, and Hewlett Packard.

### Key Resources

Neusoft’s key resources are its proprietary technologies and intellectual properties, its software products and solutions, its IT and communications infrastructure, its sales and distribution channels, its partnerships, and its personnel.

Neusoft utilises a range of proprietary technologies in the development and delivery of its software solutions. Searches of records published by the US Patent and Trademark Office identified no patent applications filed in Neusoft’s name. A search of records published by a third party online patents database, however, identified several applications filed in Neusoft’s name, including applications entitled ‘Method and Apparatus for Data Linkage between Heterogeneous Platforms’ and ‘Method and Apparatus for Identifying Obstacle in Image’.

Neusoft also owns and or leases a portfolio of physical properties that comprise its international office network.

### Cost Structure

Neusoft incurs costs in relation to the development its proprietary technologies and intellectual properties, the development of its products and solutions, the maintenance of its IT and communications infrastructure, the operation of its sales and distribution channels, the management of its partnerships, the procurement of services, the implementation of marketing and advertising campaigns, and the retention of its personnel.

### Revenue Streams

Neusoft generates revenue through the development and sale of various software products, as well as through the provision of a range of related services.

The Company derives this revenue under sales and service contracts that are agreed on a case-by-case basis, as well as through the licensing of its software products. In 2015 Neusoft generated revenue in the amount of approximately CNY 7.80 billion (around $1.13 billion), comparable to its revenue generated in 2014.
