---
layout: post
title: rambler
---

Businessmodel of Rambler
-------------------------

### Customer Segments

Rambler has a mass market business model, with no significant differentiation between customer segments. The company targets its offerings at all Internet users, particularly those in Russia.

### Value Proposition

Rambler offers three primary value propositions: accessibility, risk reduction, and brand/status.

The company creates accessibility by offering a wide variety of options. Its homepage, Rambler.ru, provides web search, news aggregation, e-mail, and eCommerce services. They are complemented by the other websites under the Rambler Media Group, which are as follows:

 * Lenta.ru, a Russian-language newspaper
* Doktor.ru, a provider of medical and health advice
* Mama.ru, a provider of parenting advice
* Ferra.ru, a provider of information about computer equipment
* Price.ru, a product comparison website
* Top 100, an Internet catalogue and navigation system
* Rambler-ICQ, an instant messaging service
 All of these services have expanded Rambler’s portfolio and corresponding capabilities.

The company reduces risk through high safety and security standards. An independent study conducted in 2015 found that it offers the most secure encryption of any e-mail service in Russia.

The company has established a strong brand due to its success. Following a merger with SUP Media, it became the third largest Internet provider in Russia, surpassed by only Yandex and Google. It has  over 40 million monthly unique visitors who generate over three billion monthly page views. About 65% of the country’s Internet users visit its homepage at least once a day.

### Channels

Rambler’s main channel is its website. The company promotes its offering through its social media pages and advertising.

### Customer Relationships

Rambler’s customer relationship is primarily of a self-service, automated nature. Customers utilize the service through the main platform while having limited interaction with employees.

### Key Activities

Rambler’s business model entails maintaining a robust platform and designing various services for its users.

### Key Partners

Rambler does not maintain a formal partnership program. That said, it has formed a variety of strategic alliances over the years to enhance its offerings for customers. These include the following:

 * Yandex has announced a partnership with Rambler through which it powers Rambler’s search services through its search engine and Rambler joins its Ad Network.
* Netvibes has announced a partnership with Rambler through which it brings its widgets to the search portal, marking the first time it has licensed its platform for distribution to a third party.
 ### Key Resources

Rambler’s main resources are its human resources, primarily the technology employees that maintain its platform, the writers and designers who provide its content, and the customer service staff members who provide support.

### Cost Structure

Rambler has a cost-driven structure, aiming to minimize expenses through significant automation and low-price value propositions. Its biggest cost driver is likely sales/marketing, a fixed cost. Other major drivers are in the areas of administration and customer support/operations, both fixed costs.

### Revenue Streams

Rambler has one revenue stream:  revenues generated from the fees it charges brands and other third parties to advertise their offerings on its platform. Specific ad services include display, paid search, and context advertising. Pricing is determined in consultation with the firm’s staff.
