---
layout: post
title: axway
---

Businessmodel of Axway
-----------------------

### Customer Segments

Axway has a mass market business model, with no significant differentiation between customer groups. The company targets its offerings at organizations of all industries and sizes.

### Value Proposition

Axway offers three primary value propositions: innovation, performance, and brand/status.

The company demonstrates strong performance through tangible results. Specific positive outcomes for clients include the following:

 * Hammarplast used Axway’s solutions to onboard its partners easily and quickly, resulting in
 a 100% increase in its ability to meet customer EDI requirements

 * FM Logistics used Axway’s solutions to automatically route and transform files, resulting in a reduction in customer onboarding time from 15 days to three days
* The Swiss FOITT agency used Axway’s solutions to manage increasing volume of electronic transactions, resulting in a 20% reduction in transit clearance times
* GETRAG used Axway’s solutions to implement a comprehensive e-mail system, resulting in the elimination of 90% of unwanted e-mail traffic
* Danish Defence used Axway’s solutions to increase the efficiency of its communications, resulting a 90% decrease in postage expenses and overall cost savings
 The company has established a strong brand due to its success. It has over 11,000 clients based in 100 countries. Its solution fuels millions of apps. It has many prominent customers, including Dun & Bradstreet, BMW Group, DHL, P&G, Barclays, and ING. Lastly, it has won many honors, including:

 * Recognized as a “Leader” in the Gartner Magic Quadrant for Full Life Cycle API Management three times in a row
* Recognized as a “Leader” in the API Management Solutions field by Ovum
* Recognized as a “Leader” in the Pharmaceutical Track and Trace Software Market by IDC MarketScape
* Recognized as a “Leader” for API Security Management in the KuppingerCole Leadership Compass Report
* Recognized as a “Champion” in Info-Tech Research Group’s 2015 Managed File Transfer Vendor Landscape Report two years in a row
 ### Channels

Axway’s main channel is its direct sales team. The company promotes its offerings through its website, social media pages, meetups, roundtables, expos, summits, and conferences.

### Customer Relationships

Axway’s customer relationship is primarily of a personal assistance nature. The company assists customers in the following ways:

 * Support Services – The company provides phone customer service on a 24x365 basis from support centers worldwide. It also enables clients to outsource the integration, management, scaling, and updating of platforms, applications and hardware so they can focus on core business.
* Training Services – The company offers training courses for its solutions at public centers, at client sites, and online through virtual instructor-led training. The classes feature lectures and hands-on workshops.
* Professional Services – The company offers a wide variety of professional services, including product consulting, data flow governance consulting, implementation services, and operational services.
 Despite this orientation, there is a self-service component. The company’s website features a “Resource Library” that includes useful tools such as white papers, data sheets, reports, brochures, eBooks, solution briefs, infographics, webinars, and videos.

### Key Activities

Axway’s business model entails designing and developing its software products for customers.

### Key Partners

Axway maintains the following types of partnerships:

System Integrator Partners – The company works with firms that provide integration and consulting services for their mutual customers.

Channel Partners – The company works with the following:

 * Channel Reseller Partners – Firms that buy its solutions and services at a discount from the recommended retail price and resell them at a partner-defined price.
* Channel Referral Partners – Firms that identify new business opportunities for Axway and receive a commission if those leads become paying customers.
 Technology Partners – The company works with firms that integrate their hardware or software systems with its solutions in order to provide enhanced offerings for its customers. They include software vendors, original equipment manufacturers, and device manufacturers.

Managed Service Partners – The company works with firms that embed its technology in their hosted managed service offerings in order to enhance offerings for their customers.

Benefits of being a partner include:

 * The opportunity to pursue business opportunities with Axway’s customers
* Access to free or discounted training on Axway’s offerings
* Access to various tools and resources through the Axway Advantage Partner Portal
* Access to co-marketing opportunities such as workshops and other industry events
 ### Key Resources

Axway’s main resources are its human resources, who include the engineers that design and develop its software, the sales employees that promote it, the training/consulting employees that provide instruction/advice, and the customer service employees that provide support.

### Cost Structure

Axway has a value-driven structure, aiming to provide a premium proposition through significant personal service and frequent service enhancements. Its biggest cost driver is cost of sales, a variable expense.

Other major drivers are in the areas of sales/marketing, research/development, and administration, all fixed costs.

### Revenue Streams

Axway has three revenue streams:

 * Revenue from license fees
* Revenue from maintenance fees
* Revenue from service fees
