---
layout: post
title: soti
---

Businessmodel of SOTI
----------------------

### Customer Segments

SOTI provides a range of enterprise mobility management solutions to commercial operators across multiple industries. On its website, the Company states that it serves clients across the following industries:

 * Field Services, including telecommunications companies, cable network operators, mobile network operators, and gas utilities providers;
* Healthcare, including healthcare providers, medical services companies, and healthcare practitioners;
* Retail, including physical and digital retailers across various sectors;
* Transportation and Logistics, including dedicated logistics and distribution companies, airline operators, fleet management companies, and transportation providers;
* Education, including various educational institutions such as colleges and universities, as well as research institutions; and
* Manufacturing, including manufacturers across multiple sectors, including producers of industrial components and parts, and manufacturers of consumer goods and electronics.
 SOTI names a number of its customers on its website. This includes various high-profile businesses, such as American Airlines, DPD, Peninsula Hotels, Amey, and ThyssenKrupp.

SOTI states that it serves more than 17,000 customers across 170 countries. The Company’s core market is North America; however, it also serves customers across the Americas more broadly, as well as across markets in Asia Pacific, Europe, the Middle East, and Africa.

### Value Propositions

SOTI provides value to its customers in the following ways:

 * Its industry standing and reputation, with the Company established as a leading provider of enterprise mobility management solutions, as demonstrated by its ability to secure business from various high-profile customers;
* Its broad range of service offerings, with the Company offering a wide range of solutions that include mobile security, device management, and cloud services targeted at commercial entities across multiple industries, including the transportation, healthcare, and manufacturing sectors;
* Its extensive network of partners, with the Company maintaining a wide network of partner organisations – including resellers, technology partners, and original equipment manufacturers – that ensure that the Company’s solutions are effective and efficient; and
* Its international reach, with the Company providing solutions to more than 17,000 commercial clients in 170 countries, spanning markets across the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe, the Middle East, and Africa.
 ### Channels

SOTI operates a website at www.soti.net, through which it provides information on its various solutions, partners, target industries, and operating locations. Despite its online presence, the Company does not operate an online sales channel. It does, however, allow customers to organise free trials of its products through an online contact form, and to register an interest in making purchases.

SOTI makes its sales principally through its in-house direct sales force, which is organised by geographic region. The Company’s sales personnel operate out of its network of sales and administrative offices across its operating regions, including regional headquarters located in Canada, the UK, Australia, and India.

SOTI’s solutions additionally reach clients through a network of third party channel and distribution partners. This includes resellers, systems integrators, and original equipment manufacturers that promote, market, and sell the Company’s solutions on SOTI’s behalf.

### Customer Relationships

Despite its online presence, SOTI does not sell its products on a self-service basis. The Company does, however, allow customers to register an interest in free product trials directly through the Company’s website via an online contact form.

SOTI makes sales primarily through its direct sales force, the members of which consult closely with clients to ensure that it offers appropriate and effective solutions. Where possible, the Company seeks to provide tailored and scaled solutions that suit the individual needs of each client. SOTI aims to establish long-term commercial relationships with its clients, working closely with customers on an ongoing basis.

SOTI offers a range of support services to its clients. Customers are able to lodge technical support requests via email or through an online contact form, in order to access personalised assistance. The Company also offers a range of online support resources that can be accessed independently through the Company’s website, including white papers, case studies, datasheets, webinars, and reports.

### Key Activities

SOTI is a provider of enterprise mobility management solutions. The Company is engaged primarily in the development and distribution of technology solutions designed to assist commercial enterprises in the management, security, support, and tracking of remote mobile and desktop computing devices.

SOTI’s product portfolio includes MobiControl, a mobile device management, helpdesk, security, and tracking solution; MobiControl SDK–iOS, which allows independent software vendors and enterprise application developers to remotely support their deployment and enhance their applications; and MobiAssist, a helpdesk solution that enables IT helpdesks to perform remote control and advanced diagnostics.

The Company serves an extensive client base of commercial enterprises across multiple industries, including the retail, manufacturing, healthcare, transportation, and manufacturing sectors. SOTI is based in Canada, but serves a global customer base spanning 170 countries worldwide.

### Key Partners

SOTI operates in close conjunction with a network of partner companies and organisations that support its core development and distribution activities. These partners can be organised broadly into the following categories:

 * Supplier and Vendor Partners, including suppliers of services, technologies, and equipment that is utilised across the enterprise and its operating divisions, as well as companies to which certain non-technical functions can be outsourced;
* Channel and Distribution Partners, comprising the Company’s network of authorised resellers, original equipment manufacturers, and software vendors that assist in extending the sales and marketing reach of the Company’s own direct sales force;
* Technology Partners, including technology companies, software developers, and technology integrators that work with the Company on developing joint solutions and integrate third-party functionality into the Company’s products to create integrated offerings; and
* Strategic and Alliance Partners, including high-profile companies across various sectors with which the Company collaborates on joint projects, including in branding, marketing, and development.
 SOTI has a number of key partnerships in place. This includes a security partnership with Certes Networks, a strategic partnership with Handheld Group, a distribution partnership with Data Select, and an original equipment manufacturing partnership with Honeywell.

### Key Resources

SOTI’s key resources are its intellectual properties and technologies, its products and solutions, its IT and communications infrastructure, its sales and distribution channels, its partnerships, and its personnel.

SOTI utilises various proprietary technologies and properties in the development and delivery of its products. However, searches of records published by the Canadian Intellectual Property Office and the US Patent and Trademark Office identified no patent applications filed in SOTI’s name.

SOTI additionally owns and or leases a number of physical properties around the world. This principally includes its office network, including its regional offices in Canada, Australia, the UK, and India.

### Cost Structure

SOTI incurs costs in relation to the development of its technologies and solutions, the operation of sales and distribution channels – including the operation of its office network, the maintenance of its IT and communications infrastructure, the management of its partnerships, the procurement of professional services, the implementation of marketing advertising campaigns, and the retention of its personnel.

### Revenue Streams

SOTI generates revenue through the development and sale of enterprise mobility management solutions to commercial customers across multiple business sectors. The Company derives revenue under sale and service contracts, which appear to be agreed on a client-by-client basis.

SOTI remains a privately owned company, and as such is not obliged to disclose its financial results online. Research did not identify any recent estimates of its annual revenue, however, reports from 2015 suggest that the Company recorded a year-on-year increase in revenue of 53% for the financial year.
