---
layout: post
title: gigya
---

Businessmodel of Gigya
-----------------------

### Customer Segments

Gigya serves a diverse network of commercial and institutional clients across multiple industries. The Company organises its customers into the following customer categories:

 * Ecommerce, comprising dedicated ecommerce businesses, online merchants, and multichannel retailers;
* Media, comprising broadcasters, television network companies, digital and physical magazines, and news media companies;
* Publishing, comprising digital and physical content publishers, academic journals, book publishers, and newspaper companies;
* Travel and Leisure, comprising airlines, airport facilities, travel operators and agents, tourism boards, and hospitality and hotel companies;
* Brands, comprising a range of high-profile consumer brands across multiple operating sectors; and
* Organisations, comprising a range of institutional clients such as non-profit, education, finance and healthcare organisations.
 Gigya serves a number of high-profile clients across its customer segments, including well-known names such as Canon, Forbes, Lufthansa, Panasonic, Stanford University, Colgate, L’Oreal, and Harvard Business Review.

Gigya serves a global client base, with customers based primarily across the North America, Europe, and Asia Pacific.

### Value Propositions

Gigya provides value to its clients in the following ways:

 * Its industry standing and reputation, with the Company established as a reliable and effective provider of customer identity management solutions, demonstrated by its ability to secure recurring businesses form high-profile clients such as L’Oreal, Canon, and Lufthansa;
* Its exhaustive service offerings, with the Company offering an extensive catalogue of solutions and functionality through its online platform, catering to a broad network of clients across multiple industries,
* Its accessibility and flexibility, with the Company’s flagship online platform easily accessed by clients through the loud, with solutions called and tailored to customers where possible;
* Its commitment to performance and security, with the Company committed to maintaining the highest level of performance and security for its clients, providing reliable protection to client assets and data; and
* Its international reach, with the Company serving an extensive international client base across North America, Asia Pacific, and Europe, maintaining an operational presence in various markets including the UK, Australia, and France.
 ### Channels

Gigya operates a website at www.gigya.com, through which it provides information on its various solutions, target industries, and customer segments. The Company does not sell its software-as-a-service solutions to customers through an online sales channel, although it does allow clients to request software demonstrations through a link on its website. Once purchases, customers can access the Company’s online platform independently via connected computers.

Gigya makes its sales primarily through its in-house direct sales force, which is organised into teams by geographic region. These sales personnel operate out of the Company’s international network of offices, including location in the US, the UK, Australia, France, Israel, and Germany.

Gigya’s core software-as-a-service solution is typically implemented as part of a larger digital strategy. As such the Company works closely with a range of system integrators and agency partners that incorporate the Company’s offerings into a more wide-ranging strategy with a view to ensuring efficient and successful implementations for shared clients. The Company also utilises the services of other channel partners such as resellers and distributors.

### Customer Relationships

Gigya does not make sales of its solutions to clients on a self-service basis. The Company, however, does enable customers to request software demonstrations independently through its website. Once clients have purchased the Company’s solutions they are able to access the Company’s flagship platform on a self-service basis.

Gigya makes its sales primarily through its in-house direct sales force, the members of which consult closely with clients to ensure that solutions are tailored and scaled on an individual basis to suit the unique needs and circumstances of each client.  The Company seeks to establish long-term relationships with its clients, and secure its flagship platform as the platform of choice for client identity management solutions.

Gigya offers its clients ongoing technical support, with customers able to contact dedicated support personnel over the phone, via email, or online in order to access personalised support services. The Company additionally makes a range of resources available to customers through its website, including white papers, webinars, and case studies.

Gigya additionally lists all of its upcoming events on its website, allowing clients the opportunity to interact with company representatives in person. It also operates social media accounts with Facebook, Twitter, Google+, and LinkedIn through which it can provide company updates and interact directly with clients.

### Key Activities

Gigya provides a range of electronic commerce services and customer identity management solutions. The Company primarily serves clients through its flagship software-as-a-service platform, which includes a suite of social plugins for online businesses including social login, sharing, and plugins, as well as identity management, comment moderation, and mobile website integration.

The Company serves clients across a range of industries, including the media, ecommerce, travel and leisure, and publishing sectors. Gigya has a global client base, and maintains an operational presence in North America, Asia Pacific, Europe, and the Middle East, including locations in Israel, France, the US, and Australia.

### Key Partners

Gigya works in close conjunction with an extensive network of commercial partners that support its development and implementation activities. The Company organises its partners into the following categories:

 * Agency Partners, comprising a range of marketing agencies and branding firms that assist in the marketing and development of the Company solutions, and extend its sales reach across multiple geographic markets;
* Solutions Providers, comprising suppliers of technical services and solutions, as well as various consulting firms, that assist in the development and implementation of the Company’s software solutions;
* Systems Integration Partners, comprising a range of technology companies, online platform operators, and professional services firms that extend the Company’s sales reach by integrating its service offerings into broader digital strategy solutions; and
* Technology Partners, comprising technology companies and software development companies that assist in the development and delivery of the Company’s solutions, and assist in the maintenance of its IT systems.
 Gigya has a number of key strategic partnerships in place. This includes partnerships with agency partners RAPP, and Razorfish; solutions providers Alpha Solutions, Atos Consulting, and BrightWave; systems integration partners Deloitte Digital, and IC Consult; and technology partners Adobe, IBM, and Informatica.

### Key Resources

Gigya’s key resources are its proprietary technologies and online platform, its IT and communications infrastructure, its sales and distribution channels, its physical network of offices, its partnerships, and its personnel.

Gigya utilises a range of proprietary technologies and intellectual properties in the development and delivery of its solutions. Searches of records published by the US Patent and Trademark Office, however, identified no patent applications filed in Gigya’s name, either as applicant or assignee.

Gigya also owns and or leases a number of physical properties in the US, the UK, Germany, France, Israel, and Australia that comprise its international network of sales and administrative offices.

### Cost Structure

Gigya incurs costs in relation to the development of its technologies and online software solutions, the maintenance of its It and communications infrastructure, the operation of its sales and distribution channel, the procurement of consulting services and professional solutions, the implementation of marketing and advertising campaigns, the management of its partnerships, and the retention of its personnel.

### Revenue Streams

Gigya generates revenue through the provision of electronic commerce services and customer identity management solutions, primarily through its online software platform. The Company additionally generates revenue through the sale of additional tools and functionality, as well as the provision of related services.

Gigya offers its core software platform in three packages with varying functionality: Identity, Identity Plus, and Identity Enterprise. The Company does not disclose its pricing model online, offering tailored quotes for each client. Gigya derives revenue primarily under service contracts and subscription services.

Gigya remains a privately owned company and as such is not obliged to publish its financial results online. In 2015, however, the Company was reported have recorded revenue growth of 516%, making it the 160th fastest growing company in North America.
