---
layout: post
title: omnicell
---

Businessmodel of Omnicell
--------------------------

### Customer Segments

Omnicell caters almost exclusively to the healthcare and medical industry. The Company’s corporate sales team focuses its attention primarily on sales to large integrated delivery networks, group purchasing organisations, and the US government.

Omnicell’s group purchasing organisation customers in particular provide the Company with access to member healthcare facilities. The Company currently has contracts with organisations including Amerinet, Federal Supply Schedule, First Choice Management Services, Healthcare Purchasing Alliance, HealthTrust Purchasing Group, Magnet, MedAssets Performance Management Solutions, Novation, Premier Healthcare Alliance, and Resource Optimisation and Innovation. It also serves the US General Services Administration.

Omnicell’s Automation and Analytics and Medication Adherence solutions are sold primarily in the US and Canada. Approximately 85% of the Company’s product revenue was generated in North America for the year ended 31st December 2015. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of total annual revenue.

### Value Propositions

Omnicell provides value to its customers by providing quality and reliable products and solutions, offering a wide variety of solutions, ongoing customer support and product development.

### Channels

Omnicell operates a hybrid sales and distribution system, operating its own direct, corporate and international sales teams in conjunction with a network of distribution partners. The Company has around 231 sales staff spread across sales offices in Canada, Europe, the Middle East and Asia-Pacific. It also operates supply chain networks in Asia.

Within the US and Canada, Omnicell’s sales force is organised by geographic region in the United States and Canada, with sales primarily made direct to end user customers, with the exception of some distribution of Medication Adherence consumables.

Outside of North America, Omnicell operates a direct sales force for Medication Adherence products in the UK and Germany and in all other jurisdictions – including across the rest of Europe, Asia, Australia, the Middle East, South Africa, and South America – it sells via third-party distributors and resellers.

### Customer Relationships

Omnicell does not make its products available on a self-service basis. Instead, customers must contact one of the Company’s sales teams and discuss their individual requirements. In this way customers receive a greater degree of personal care.

Omnicell often, in particular with its group purchasing organisation customers, will enter into multi-year contracts with options for renewal or extension for up to two years. Some of these contracts can be terminated by either party at any time. Omnicell also employs multi-year lease agreements which are often agreed on a recurring basis.

Omnicell also provides its clients with post-installation technical support, education and training, and maintenance services. Customers are able to contact the Company’s support staff through its 24-hour helpdesk and online contact form, enabling customers to receive personalized assistance.

Additionally, Omnicell hosts a news and events section on its website, which keeps customers updated with company developments, and operates Facebook, Google+, Twitter, LinkedIn and YouTube accounts, through which it can interact with customers directly.

### Key Activities

Omnicell is engaged in the development, marketing and sale of automation and business information solutions to the healthcare sector, primarily selling to group purchasing organisations, integrated delivery networks and US government agencies. The Company operates through two operating segments:

 * Automation and Analytics, which includes the development of products designed to enable customers to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the medication-use process, the efficiency of the medical-surgical supply chain, overall patient care and clinical and financial outcomes of medical facilities; and
* Medication Adherence, which concerns the development of products used to manage medication administration systems outside of the hospital setting, including medication adherence products sold under the MTS Medication Technologies, Surgichem, Omnicell and SureMed brands.
 Medication Adherence products in large part comprise proprietary packaging systems and related products.

### Key Partners

Omnicell has formed partnerships with a number of companies and organisations – including healthcare providers, purchasing groups and vendors – with a view to providing efficient, safe and reliable solutions to the healthcare sector. These partnerships are divided principally into two categories:

 * Resell Partners, including other medical technology companies, healthcare distributors and value-added resellers; and
* Purchasing Groups, comprising group purchasing organisations, government organisations and health systems.
 The Company also maintains strategic alliances with a number of technology companies and medical product manufacturers. Among Omnicell’s reported partners are software giant Microsoft, medical product manufacturer Codonics, producer of prescription medication bar code scanners RxScan, and health information technology provider Cerner.

### Key Resources

Omnicell’s key resources are its technology and intellectual property, its manufacturing and supply chain networks, its IT infrastructure, its sales and distribution channels, and its personnel.

According to its annual report, Omnicell relies on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect its intellectual property rights. Searches of records held by the US Patent and Trademark Office identified two patent applications filed in its name: ‘Versatile lighting system for dispensing cabinets’ and ‘Storage cabinet with multiple RFID readers’.

### Cost Structure

Omnicell incurs costs in relation to research and development of its products, the manufacturing of its products, the operation of sales and distribution networks, the maintenance of its IT infrastructure, and the retention of its personnel.

According to its annual report, selling, general and administrative costs – including the payment of employee salaries and benefits and fees associated with operating multiple offices – amounted to 35% of total revenue in 2015, while research and development costs amounted to 7%.

### Revenue Streams

Omnicell generates revenue through the sale of medication, medical and surgical supply automation systems, as well as the sale of related consumables, such as medication blister cards and packaging, and provision of ancillary services, such as customer education and training. The Company’s customer arrangements typically include one or more of the following deliverables:

 * Products;
* Software;
* Installation services;
* Post-installation technical support; and
* Professional services.
 In 2015 Omnicell generated $484.6 million in revenue, up from the $440.9 million the Company recorded the previous year. The increase in revenues was attributed in part to larger transaction sizes and revenue from acquired companies Mach4 and Avantec. Of its total annual revenue, the Company’s Automation and Analytics segment generated $390.3 million, while the Medication Adherence segment generated $94.2 million.
