---
layout: post
title: mantech
---

Businessmodel of ManTech
-------------------------

### Customer Segments

ManTech International provides a range of technologies and solutions, including security, software development, systems engineering and IT consulting services. The Company vast majority of the Company’s business comes through contracts with the US Government and its numerous agencies and public bodies. The Company’s major clients include:

 * The Departments of Defense, State, Homeland Security, Health and Human Services, Veterans Affairs and Justice, including the Federal Bureau of Investigation;
* The Space Community; and
* Other US Government Bodies
 ManTech International has long-standing relationships with its government customers. For each of the last three years the Company has derived approximately 99% of its annual revenues from US Government customers, with at least 90% of revenues coming from national security and defense customers.

The Company’s customers are based almost exclusively in the US. It treats sales to US Government customers as sales within the US, regardless of where the services are performed.

### Value Propositions

ManTech International provides value to its customers in the following ways:

 * The reliability of its products and solutions, comprising a broad range of services that have proved to be sufficiently reliable and efficient to attract the recurring business of government clients;
* Its security and robust infrastructure, which is key when operating within the unforgiving national security sector;
* Its expertise, including specialist cyber security, consulting, engineering, and intelligence personnel; and
* Its commitment to innovation and development, ensuring that its products and services are consistently at the cutting edge so that its high-profile clients receive the best possible service.
 ### Channels

ManTech International operates a website at www.mantech.com, through which it provides information on its various products and services. The Company, however, does not operate an online sales channel.

With the majority of ManTech International’s business coming through government contracts, much of the Company’s business is secured by a devoted sales team through competitive government tenders and auctions. The Company employs a team specialised in dealing with government agencies.

The nature of ManTech International’s business does not lend itself to the use of channel partners, such as resellers and sales agents, with the majority of the Company’s contracts coming through official government channels.

### Customer Relationships

While ManTech International has an online presence, its business model does not allow for it to simply provide solutions on a self-service basis. The Company has a devoted sales team that manages the process of bidding for and securing government contracts, which requires that the Company be compliant with a series of official regulations.

ManTech International deals directly with its customers, both public and commercial, consulting with them over a period of time in order to provide a bespoke solutions spanning its entire range of services and products.

ManTech International also provides ongoing support to its customers, with customers able to contact the Company directly through email and phone channels. The Company also operates social media accounts with Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn.

### Key Activities

ManTech International Corporation is a technology and cyber security solutions company.

It provides a suite of technologies and solutions, primarily to national security programs and US Government agencies, including the intelligence community; the departments of Defense, State, Homeland Security, Health and Human Services, Veterans Affairs and Justice; and the space industry.

The Company’s information technology and technical services and solutions are principally provided under official contracts with the US Government, supporting specific national security assignments and providing services to more than 50 federal government agencies.

Its solutions and services include cybersecurity, software and systems development, enterprise information technology, multi-disciplined intelligence, program protection and mission assurance, systems engineering, test and evaluation, and command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance services.

### Key Partners

ManTech International does not appear to operate a partner program, and its sales and distribution team does not appear to utilise the services of resellers, distributors and independent sales agents to any significant degree.

However, the Company does enter into occasional joint venture projects with other companies to bid jointly on and complete particular projects. These partners primarily comprise technology and cyber security firms that can provide complementary services to those provided by ManTech International.

In recent years, ManTech International has entered into a range of partnerships. The Company has joined the US Army’s Partnership for Youth Service, has collaborated with HortonWorks on government contracts, teamed up with Saffron Saffron to combat fraud in the financial services industry, and has launched a tie-up with UMD on a cyber security research project.

### Key Resources

ManTech International’s key resources are its technology and cybersecurity solutions, its intellectual properties, its IT infrastructure, and its personnel – notably its security and technology specialist staff.

The Company owns a limited number of patents, and maintains a number of trademarks and service marks to identify and distinguish its goods and services. While the Company takes steps to protect its patents and marks, it does not consider its business to depend protection of its intellectual property. Searches of records published by the US Patent and Trademark Office identified no patent applications filed in the name of ManTech international.

### Cost Structure

ManTech International incurs costs in the relation to the development of its products and solutions, the maintenance of its IT infrastructure, its participation in government tenders and contracts, and the retention of its personnel.

The Company accrues substantial general and administrative costs, paying the salaries and benefits of its 7,200 employees, and rent and utility fees in relation to its network of facilities, including offices, laboratories and warehouses.

### Revenue Streams

ManTech International generates revenue through the provision of various cyber security and technology solutions, including security and intelligence, big data, supply chain management, and test and evaluation services. The Company’s revenue is generated through fees associated with the following contracts forms:

 * Cost-reimbursable contracts
* Fixed-price contracts
* Time and materials contracts
 In 2015 ManTech International generated an annual revenue of $1.55 billion, down on the $1.77 billion recorded in 2014. The majority of the Company’s revenue, around 90.7%, was derived from contracts with US government agencies focused on national security. Around 20.7% was derived from contracts with federal civilian agencies, and approximately 1.1% was derived from contracts with state agencies, international agencies and commercial entities.

ManTech International’s dependence on government contracts means that its operational results are affected by US government spending levels in the areas of defense, federal health information technology, intelligence and homeland security.
