---
layout: post
title: mindjet
---

Businessmodel of Mindjet
-------------------------

### Customer Segments

Mindjet’s target market is a mass market. No specific customer is excluded from their business model, as the software is easily applicable to a wide variety of clients. As programs with a wide range of applications, different businesses can easily tailor the software to their desired result.

### Value Proposition

Mindjet aims to bring ideas to life by making them visual. By giving clients tools to visualize and share ideas, Mindjet increases their productivity and creativity. MindManager, the primary mind mapping tool developed by Mindjet, features budgeting tools, forecasting tools, risk analysis charts and numerous other features that allow for detailed mind mapping and plans.

MindManager Enterprise builds on MindManager, introducing enhanced communication and sharing features, allowing larger teams to collaborate equally on a single task or develop an idea.

Mindjet have recently released Spigit, innovative software designed to harness the creative power of crowds and employees. Spigit enables businesses to crowdsource effective and efficient ideas from a number of sources, ensuring that multiple voices are heard.

Mindjet has a strong, bold logo and well-established brand. A strong emphasis on collaboration is vital to Mindjet’s branding, especially as new software has been released with enhanced sharing capabilities. Mindjet strives to stay ahead of the competition and continually innovate new products, and implement new technologies. Many reputable companies use Mindjet products, including: IBM, Pfizer, Dow Chemical, Lockheed Martin and Raytheon.

### Channels

Mindjet uses two main sales channels, its website and third-party resellers. Customers can also download a free trial of the software prior to purchase.

Mindjet markets its products through multiple mediums including: print advertising, via its website and through social media platforms. As such a well-established program with high profile clients, many marketing efforts are second to word of mouth. Many blogs and websites will host features displaying information regarding Mindjet products.

### Customer Relationships

As an online-based software company, Mindjet’s customer relationships are primarily of a self-serve nature. A detailed learning center and online knowledgebase are complemented by an online community and well established forum. Third-party retailers also offer real-time support as well as training courses.

### Key Activities

Mindjet’s primary activities include developing their software, adding new functions and improving services to stay up to date with modern technology.

Due to the computer based nature of the product, manufacturing is not necessary although extensive research and development is required.

### Key Partners

Mindjet has partnered with numerous businesses to help provide support and guide clients through their use of Mindjet.

As Mindjet products have multiple applications and can be tailored to a business’ specific needs, many clients may find they are not getting the most out of the Mindjet software. Key partners help advise clients on Mindjet programs best uses.

### Key Resources

Like many other software companies, Mindjet’s main resources are its Research and Development team, constantly staying on top of the latest trends and implementing new features.

Mindjet also invests significant resources in its marketing team, ensuring that any potential clients are aware of Mindjet products.

### Cost Structure

Mindjet has a value-driven cost structure, as its products are non-physical and therefore, theoretically infinite.

Major cost drivers for Mindjet include research, development, marketing and administration expenses.

### Revenue Streams

Mindjet’s primary revenue is generated from licensing fees for its software.
