---
layout: post
title: aramark
---

Businessmodel of Aramark
-------------------------

### Customer Segments

Aramark has a segmented market business model, with customer groups that have slightly different needs. The company targets its offerings at organizations in the education, healthcare, business & industry, sports, and leisure & corrections sectors.

### Value Proposition

Aramark offers two primary value propositions: innovation and brand/status.

The company embraces innovation as a part of its culture. Its groundbreaking efforts include:

 * Designing a “test kitchen” that enables guests dining at sports and entertainment venues to provide feedback on menu options through tablets and kiosks
* Creating “Your Voice Counts”, a consumer feedback tool that enables customers of the company to provide real-time feedback online or from their mobile devices
* Replacing countertop registers in sports and entertainment venues with mobile tablets for the processing of concession-stand transactions; they send real-time updates to managers’ phones
 The company has established a powerful brand due to its success. It maintains 270,000 employees who serve millions of customers in 22 countries worldwide. Specific service stats are as follows:

 * It serves 89% of the *Fortune* 500
* It serves more than 500 million meals yearly to five million students at colleges and K-12 schools
* It serves more than 2,000 healthcare facilities, representing over 75 million patient days annually
* It serves 100 million sports fans yearly through deals with 149 professional and collegiate teams
* It puts over two million people in uniforms each day
 In terms of specific business segments, its FSS North America and Uniform segments hold the #2 position in North America, while its FSS International segment holds a top 3 position in most countries in which it has significant operations. Lastly, it has won many honors, including:

 * Recognition as one of the *World’s Most Admired Companies* by *Fortune*
* *Recognition as one of *the World’s Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere Institute
* Recognition as one of the 40 Best Companies for Diversity by *Black Enterprise*
* Recognition as a Reader’s Choice Top 50 Employer of the disabled
 ### Channels

Aramark’s main channel is its business development team. The company promotes its offerings through its website, social media pages, and participation in trade shows and conferences.

### Customer Relationships

Aramark’s customer relationship is primarily of a personal assistance nature. The company works closely with clients to deliver its food, facilities, and uniform-related services.

### Key Activities

Aramark’s business model entails designing, developing, and delivering its services to customers.

### Key Partners

Aramark’s key partners are the suppliers that provide it with the equipment and supplies it needs to manage its operations.

### Key Resources

Aramark’s main resources are its human resources, who include the business development staff members that promote it and the service personnel that provide support to customers.

### Cost Structure

Aramark has a value-driven structure, aiming to provide a premium proposition through significant personal service and frequent service enhancements. Its biggest cost driver is cost of services, a variable expense. Other major drivers are in the areas of sales/marketing and administration.

### Revenue Streams

Aramark has one revenue stream: revenues it generates from the sale of its services to customers. Sales are generally carried out through the signing of short- and long-term contracts.
