---
layout: post
title: mulesoft
---

Businessmodel of MuleSoft
--------------------------

### Customer Segments

MuleSoft provides a range of integration software products to commercial and institutional customers. The Company principally serves clients across the following sectors:

 * Financial Services, including banking institutions, credit companies, and payment solutions businesses;
* Government, including US federal bodies and agencies, and public authorities across the UK;
* Healthcare, including hospitals and healthcare providers, life science organisations, specialist health insurance providers, pharmaceutical companies, and research organisations;
* Higher Education, including universities and academic institutions, primarily in the UK and the US;
* Insurance, including full-service and specialist insurance companies;
* Media and Telecoms, including telecommunications companies, media house, broadcasters, and multimedia service providers; and
* Retail, including physical and online retailers across multiple sectors, including foodservice business, consumer goods retailers, and supermarket chains.
 MuleSoft includes a number of high-profile names among its clients, including Walmart, Verizon, CBS, PennMutual, the US Department of Agriculture, the NHS, MasterCard and Barclays. MuleSoft provides services to customers in more than 60 countries worldwide, with its largest markets being its native US, and the UK.

### Value Propositions

MuleSoft provides value to its customers in the following ways:

 * Its reputation and industry standing, with the Company established as a reliable provider of high-quality software products, serving an extensive customer base of high-profile clients across multiple sectors, including Walmart, Unilever, Cisco, and Spotify;
* Its portfolio of innovative and unique products, with the Company providing a broad range of software products that serve various commercial uses and utilise a number of innovative proprietary technologies;
* Its technical expertise and specialist personnel, with the Company employing highly-trained technical staff, and employing specialist personnel across its operating divisions;
* Its range of additional and ancillary services, with the Company providing a number of additional services to clients, including consulting services and employee training programs; and
* Its technical support services, with the Company providing ongoing technical assistance to its customers, connecting users with specialist software development personnel directly as opposed to traditional call centre operations.
 ### Channels

MuleSoft operates a website at www.MuleSoft.com, through which it provides information on its various products, ancillary services, target markets, and activities. The Company’s website also allows for customers to register an account with the Company’s platform, access products, and manage payments. The Company’s software can be access through the cloud or as an on-premises installation.

MuleSoft also makes sales directly through its in-house sales force, which is available in-person and over the phone, and which is organised primarily according to geographic region and target industry. The Company operates an international network of offices, spanning its native US, as well as locations in the Netherlands, Argentina, Germany, Hong Kong, the UK, France, Singapore, and Australia.

MuleSoft additionally sells a portion of its products through a network of affiliates, value added resellers, and independent software vendors.

### Customer Relationships

MuleSoft provides a number of products to customers on a self-service basis, with customers able to register a user account, access products, manage account details, and make payments online via the MuleSoft website, without interacting directly with members of the Company’s sales personnel.

MuleSoft provides a more personal service to companies choosing to make purchases through the Company’s in-house sales teams, who are able to provide tailored advice and assistance in the process of identifying appropriate products. The Company’s personnel also consult directly with customers, working closely with commercial clients on consulting and training services.

MuleSoft provides 24-hour technical support to its customers, through a team of specialist technical staff, which can be contacted over the phone or via the Company’s online platform. The Company is able to provide accurate business hour coverage through regional teams in North America, London, Sydney and Buenos Aires.

In addition, MuleSoft provides its customers with a range of online support resources, including webinars, video, whitepapers, reports, infographics, and case studies. Customers are also able to interact directly with the Company through its social media accounts, including with Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and LinkedIn.

### Key Activities

MuleSoft is a software company. It is engaged in the design, development, and marketing of an integration platform that is designed to connect applications, data sources, and devices. The Company’s software offering operates as an on-premises solution, as well as a cloud-based platform.

The Company’s products include software-as-a-service integration product Anypoint Platform; an API and service management system named API Manager; graphical design platform Anypoint Studio; and application connector Anypoint Connectors. The Company also provides ancillary consulting, support and training services.

MuleSoft serves customers across multiple business sectors, including the financial services, government, healthcare, insurance, media, telecommunications, and retail industries, operating out of a network of offices across the Americas, Europe, and Asia Pacific.

### Key Partners

MuleSoft works in conjunction with a number of companies and organisations, notably technology provider, throughout the development and distribution of its products. These partners include:

 * Software Development and Technology Partners, comprising a range of software development and technology companies that assist in delivering and developing the Company’s software offerings;
* Channel and Distribution Partners, comprising a range of value added resellers, independent software vendors, and affiliates, that extend the Company’s own marketing and sales reach;
* Consulting Partners, comprising a range of market leading companies across multiple sectors, in particular companies operating across the technology sector, that provide assistance and support to the Company; and
* Strategic and Alliance Partners, comprising a range of companies and organisations with which the Company shares resources and collaborate son joint projects.
 MuleSoft has a number high-profile consulting partners, including Accenture, Infosys, Oracle, Salesforce, Cisco, and Deloitte Digital. Its reseller partners include AOE, B2BCommerce, C3S, FastConnect, and Integsoft.

### Key Resources

MuleSoft’s key resources are its technologies and intellectual properties, its software platforms and digital channels, its IT and communications infrastructure, its sales and technical support channels, its partnerships, and its personnel – notably its specialist technical staff.

MuleSoft’s proprietary technology and products are key to the success of its ongoing operations. Searches of records published by the US Patent and Trademark Office, however, identified just one application filed in the name of MuleSoft. This application was entitled ‘API notebook tool’. The Company also owns and leases a number of properties, principally its network of 13 offices across the Americas, Europe, and Asia Pacific, including locations in London, Amsterdam, Washington, Paris, Hong Kong, and Sydney.

### Cost Structure

MuleSoft incurs costs in relation to the development of its technology and digital platforms, the maintenance of its IT and communications infrastructure, the operation of its sales and support units, the management of its partnerships, and the retention of its personnel.

### Revenue Streams

MuleSoft primarily generates revenue through the sale of subscriptions to its software platform and software products, and related services. This includes:

 * Revenue derived from subscriptions to its flagship enterprise service bus product;
* Revenue derived from subscriptions to its API gateway and Anypoint API management platform; and
* Revenue derived from its provision of professionals services, such as consulting and training.
 MuleSoft is not a publicly-listed company and therefore does not disclose its financial accounts and performance figure on its website. The Company, however, has stated that in 2015 it generated revenue in excess of $100 million, representing an 92% growth in revenue year on year.
