---
layout: post
title: kkr
---

Businessmodel of KKR
---------------------

Henry Kravis (Co-Founder, Co-Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer)

Kravis co-founded KKR is Co-Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer of KKR, and has serves as member of the Company’ senior leadership team since co-founding the Company in 1976. Kravis also serves on the boards of First Data Corporation, and ICONIQ Capital, and is a director, Chairman Emeritus or trustee of several cultural, professional, and educational institutions, including The Business Council, Claremont McKenna College, Columbia Business School, Mount Sinai Hospital, Partnership for New York City, Partnership Fund for New York City, and Rockefeller University.

Kravis holds a bachelor’s degree from Claremont McKenna College and a master’s degree in Business Administration from the Columbia Business School.

George Roberts (Co-Founder, Co-Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer)

Roberts co-founded KKR in 1976 and has since held a number of senior leadership positions at the Company. He currently serves as the Company’s Co-Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer.

Roberts also serves on the Company’s regional Private Equity Investment and Portfolio Management Committees, and has served as a director or trustee of cultural and educational institutions, including Claremont McKenna College. He is the founder and Chairman of San Francisco-based non-profit organisation REDF.

Roberts holds bachelor’s degree from Claremont McKenna College and a Juris Doctor degree from the University of California Law School.

William Janetschek (Executive Committee Member and Chief Financial Officer)

William Janetschek (“Janetschek”) has served as Chief Financial officer at KKR since 2014. He also serves as a member of KKR's Valuation Committee and the Firm's Risk Committee.

Janetschek joined KKR in 1997, and has since served in a variety of positions at the Company, before assuming his current role. This includes spells as Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer at KKR Management, and as Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer of KKR Guernsey GP Limited.

Prior to joining KKR, Janetschek served for several years as a Tax Partner at Deloitte and Touche. He holds a bachelor’s degree from St. John's University and a master’s degree from Pace University.
