---
layout: post
title: druva
---

Businessmodel of Druva
-----------------------

### Customer Segments

Druva offers a range of cloud-based data protection and governance solutions to enterprise clients across multiple industries. According to the Company’s website, it serves clients across the following sectors:

 * Technology, including high technology companies, software developers, web companies, and technology manufacturers;
* Life Sciences, including bioscience companies, life science organisations, healthcare companies, and medical technology businesses;
* Manufacturing, including manufacturers of consumer goods, electronics, industrial components, and construction supplies;
* Energy, including power generators, transmission companies, oil and gas producers, and chemicals companies;
* Professional Services, including consulting, accounting, and other professional services firms;
* Financial Services, including retail and commercial banking institutions, credit institutions, insurance providers, and other financial services providers;
* Education, including higher education institutions such as colleges and universities;
* Government, including municipal, state and federal government bodies, public bodies, and government agencies;
* Retail, including retail organisations across multiple sectors, including consumer goods, and travel and hospitality; and
* Non-Profit, including various not-for-profit and charitable organisations.
 Druva names a number of its clients on its website, including high-profile names such as NASA, the UK Ministry of Justice, DHL, Ubisoft, Siemens, Petronas, ING, Red Bull, and WWF.

Druva is based in the US, but serves an international client base across the Americas, Asia Pacific, and Europe.

### Value Propositions

Druva provides value to its customers in the following ways:

 * Its industry standing and reputation, with the Company established as a leading provider of cloud-based data protection solutions, demonstrated by its ability to secure business from well-known commercial and governmental entities, such as NASA and ING;
* Its broad portfolio of solutions and products, with the Company offering a broad selection of products and solutions to clients across multiple industries, including compliance monitoring, virtual data centre, and data protection services;
* Its international reach, with the Company providing products and services to an extensive domestic client base in the US, in addition to numerous international clients across Asia Pacific, Europe, and the Americas;
* Its accessibility and flexibility, with many of the Company’s products and solutions easily accessed online and through mobile apps, and with the Company offering tailored and scaled solutions where possible; and
* Its industry expertise and experience, with the Company employing specialist technical personnel across its business, led by a team of experienced industry executives.
 ### Channels

Druva operates a website at www.druva.com, through which it provides information on its various products, solutions, target industries, and operating locations. While Company does not appear to operate an online sales portal, it does allow customers to register an interest in free product trials directly through its website. It also operates an online platform and client portal, through which customers can access a range of tools and resources.

Druva makes its sales primarily through an in-house direct sales force, which is organised by geographic region and can be contacted over the phone or online. The Company’s sales personnel operate out of its network of sales and administrative offices across the Americas, Asia Pacific, and Europe, including locations in the UK, Singapore, India, Japan, Australia, and Germany.

Druva additionally offers products and solutions through various channel and distribution partners, including value added resellers, distributors, and sales agents that assist in extending the Company’s reach, particularly in certain international markets.

### Customer Relationships

While Druva does not offer products and solutions to customers on a self-service basis, it does operate an online customer portal and cloud-based platform that allows clients to access resources, tools, and products online without interacting directly with members of the Company’s sales and service teams. The Company offers mobile applications that are available and accessible on a self-service basis.

Druva primarily sells products and services through its direct sales force, the members of which consult closely with clients to ensure that they are provided the most appropriate service offerings for their individual needs. The Company’s sales personnel are also able to ensure that, where possible, solutions are scaled and tailored appropriately. The Company seeks to secure long-term business from its customers, with its cloud-based platform available only on a subscription basis.

Druva offers ongoing support to its customers, operating a dedicated online customer support portal.  Customers are able to contact support personnel over the phone or via an instant chat service in order to access personalised technical assistance. The Company also offers a range of online support resources, such as product documentation and case studies, which can be accessed independently.  Additionally, Druva operates a community forum where users can interact with one another, collaborate on problems, and share ideas.

Druva maintains a social networking presence, operating accounts with Facebook, Twitter, Google+, and LinkedIn, through which it is able to interact directly with customers and publish company updates.

### Key Activities

Druva is a software and data security company. It offers a range of cloud-based data protection and governance products and solutions to commercial and institutional clients across multiple sectors.

The Company’s flagship offerings are its inSync and Phoenix solutions, which cover end-user data protection solutions, such as user data backup and restore, mobile workforce data protection, device refresh and operating system migration, secure enterprise mobility, ediscovery enablement, and proactive compliance functionality.

Druva serves a diverse client base, including clients across the life sciences, government, technology, manufacturing, energy, and education industries. The Company is based in the US, but serves a broad international customer base spanning the Americas, Asia Pacific, and Europe.

### Key Partners

Druva works closely with a network of partner companies and organisations that support the Company’s core operations. These partners can be organised broadly into the following categories:

 * Supplier and Vendor Partners, including suppliers of services, equipment, and technologies that are utilised in support of the Company’s core development and implementation activities;
* Channel and Distribution Partners, comprising the Company’s network of value added resellers, distributors, systems integrators, and sales agents that assist in extending the Company’s sales and marketing network across it various operating regions;
* Technology Partners, including cloud infrastructure integration partners, and enterprise mobility partners that assist in the development, implementation, and integration of the Company’s various products and solutions;
* Managed Service Partners, including network service providers, and IT service providers that assist in developing and maintaining the Company’s IT and communications networks and infrastructure; and
* Strategic and Alliance Partners, including market leading companies across multiple sectors, with which the Company collaborates on joint projects, including in marketing, branding, and development.
 Druva names a number of its key partners on its website. This includes a number of high-profile technology companies, including Microsoft, Amazon Web Services, AccessData, Box, and Octa.

### Key Resources

Druva’s key resources are its proprietary technologies and intellectual properties, its software products and online solutions, its IT and communications infrastructure, its sales and distribution channels, its partnerships, and its personnel.

Druva utilises various proprietary technologies in the development and delivery of its various cloud-based solutions. Searches of records published by the US Patent and Trademark Office identified two patent applications in which Druva is named as assignee: ‘Distributed scalable deduplicated data backup system’ and ‘Efficient deduplicated data storage with tiered indexing’.

Druva additionally also owns and or leases a number of physical properties around the world that comprise its network of sales and administrative offices.

### Cost Structure

Druva incurs costs in relation to the development of its proprietary technologies and software solutions, the development and maintenance of its cloud-based platform, the maintenance of its IT and communications infrastructure, the procurement of services, the operation of its sales and distribution channels, the management of its partnerships, the implementation of marketing campaigns, and the retention of its personnel.

### Revenue Streams

Druva generates revenue through the development and sale of cloud-based data protection and governance products and solutions to commercial clients across multiple industries. The Company derives revenue through platform subscriptions, as well as sale and service contracts.

Druva remains a privately owned company and as such is not obliged to publish its financial results online. Research did not identify any coverage regarding the Company’s recent annual revenue figures.
