---
layout: post
title: prezi
---

Businessmodel of Prezi
-----------------------

### Customer Segments

Prezi is targeted at individuals and organisations that are required to make presentations. This largely comprises corporate and academic clients. Prezi is widely utilised by businesses, both internally and externally, including companies such as payment solutions provider Verifone, architectural firm Gensler and technology company Navis. Prezi software has also been used to present at a number of conferences, notably being employed by several speakers at TED Global, including by TED founder Chris Anderson.

Prezi software is also used by in academia by both students and teachers, primarily within higher education institutions and by e-learning platforms. Among Prezi’s reported educational clients are Oregon State University, the University of Edinburgh and Glasgow University.

A number of media outlets are also included among Prezi’s customers, notably business news outlet Bloomberg and UK broadsheet The Guardian. In 2011 The Guardian used Prezi software to create a new world map graphic to accompany its coverage of the newly-independent South Sudan.

### Value Propositions

The key value of Prezi’s software is that it can be accessed online from any device and includes simple sharing and editing options that allow teams to collaborate efficiently on group projects.

### Channels

Prezi can be accessed online via any device at its desktop and mobile websites at www.prezi.com, as well as through its iOS and Google Play apps, available on mobiles and tablets. Premium subscribers are also able to access the Prezi software offline.

### Customer Relationships

Prezi is a self-service platform. Both its basic and premium packages allow users to access the Company’s software products once registration is complete, with premium users able to use Prezi’s presentation tools in offline mode. Companies and organisations that subscribe to the team package require a more personalised service, in particular if the package is to be used by more than five users.

The Prezi website also includes a community section where users can interact with one another and with the Company itself. The Company also runs its own blog to keep users informed with regard to developments and changes to its services, as well as a support forum where users can find troubleshooting guides and tutorials.

### Key Activities

Prezi provides cloud-based presentation and visualisation tools for businesses, educators and conferences, and sells licences for its presentation solutions. Its products enable users to create, share and post presentations – including videos, images, and audio – from any device. The Prezi software can also be used to make presentations directly from a web browser via desktop or mobile.

### Key Partners

Prezi’s key partners primarily include technology companies and conference organisers. The Company is also a technology partner in the White House ConnectED Initiative, which aims to get high-speed internet and educational technology into classrooms across the US. Under its partnership agreement, Prezi will provide $100 million in Edu Pro licences to hundreds of thousands of high schools across America.

Prezi is also a partner of non-profit conference organiser TED Global. The two collaborated in launching a contest that calls upon the Prezi community to create presentations inspired by five of TED Global’s most renowned talks, with winning presentations being featured on the TED blog and promoted by TED curator Chris Anderson via social media.

Prezi has several technology partners, including Logitech, with which the Company has a co-marketing agreement and integration solutions. Prezi also entered a recent partnership with crowdfunding platform RocketHub. Prezi files can now be embedded directly into crowdfunding pages at the touch of a button.

### Key Resources

Prezi’s key resources are its software and technology infrastructure. Searches of records held by the US Patent and Trademark Office identified two patent applications in which Prezi is named as the assignee. These applications relate to zooming and display elements in presentation software.

The Company’s other key resources include its server space and personnel, notably its sales and marketing and engineering and design teams.

### Cost Structure

Prezi incurs costs related to the development and maintenance of its software platform, including the employment and retention of engineering, software development and sales and marketing personnel.

The Company operates offices in Budapest, Hungary and San Francisco, California which accrue fixed costs relating to rent and utilities.

### Revenue Streams

Prezi generates revenue through its user subscriptions. The Company’s basic subscription package costs £3.17 per month, while the premium package costs £8.42 per month. Both are billed annually. The Company also offers products aimed at teams starting at $795 per year for up to five users.
