---
layout: post
title: acxiom
---

Businessmodel of Acxiom
------------------------

### Customer Segments

Acxiom has a mass market business model, with no significant differentiation between customer segments. The company targets its offerings at organizations across industries and sizes.

### Value Proposition

Acxiom offers three primary value propositions: performance, risk reduction, and brand/status.

The company demonstrates strong performance through tangible results. Its proprietary recognition technology links together numerous consumer records and identifiers. The technology uses 100% deterministic matching to link households and individuals to the right mobile device IDs, cookies, and user accounts at social networks, resulting in a high degree of accuracy and speed.

The company reduces risk through high safety and security standards, as follows:

 * It established the industry's first Chief Privacy Officer role, the sole purpose of which was to ensure the responsible use and protection of consumer data
* It utilizes a data Safe Haven, a privacy-compliant environment that enables partners and marketers to connect different types of data while governing and protecting its use
* It created aboutthedata.com, a portal that provides consumers with more understanding of and transparency about how their data is gathered and used for marketing purposes
 The company has established a strong brand due to its success. It bills itself as the largest provider of data onboarding services. Its technology powers over a trillion transactions.It serves over 3,250 clients directly, including over 50% of the Fortune 100,  and its data is used by tens of thousands of organizations. Its customers include the following:

 * 9 of the top 10 insurance providers
* 9 of the top 10 media and telecommunications firms
* 8 of the top 10 automotive manufacturers
* 8 of the top 10 U.S. hotel companies
* 7 of the top 10 retailers
* 7 of the top 10 retail banks
* 7 of the top 10 credit card issuers
* 6 of the top 10 technology companies
* 4 of the top 5 domestic airlines
* 3 of the top 5 gaming companies
* 3 of the top 5 brokerage firms
 Lastly, Acxiom has won a number of honors, including recognition by *Fortune *and *Computerworld *as one of the best places to work in the United States.

### Channels

Acxiom’s main channel is its direct sales team. The company promotes its offerings through its website, social media pages, advertising, and participation in webinars and conferences.

### Customer Relationships

Acxiom’s customer relationship is primarily of a personal assistance nature. The company’s employees work closely with clients as they deliver its services.

### Key Activities

Acxiom’s business model entails designing, developing, and delivering its services to customers.

### Key Partners

Acxiom maintains alliances with entities that supply or access data and technologies; specific types of partners are as follows:

 * Media companies
* Developers
* Brands
* Data Providers
 Specific partners include AT&T Adworks, Cisco, Comcast, eBay, Facebook, IBM, Microsoft, and Yahoo.

### Key Resources

Acxiom’s main resources are its human resources, who include the technology employees that design and develop its services and the sales employees that promote them.

### Cost Structure

Acxiom has a value-driven cost structure, aiming to provide a premium proposition through significant personal service and frequent service enhancements. Its biggest cost driver is cost of revenues, a variable expense.

Other major drivers are in the areas of sales/marketing, administration, and research/development, all fixed costs.

### Revenue Streams

Acxiom has one revenue stream: revenues it generates from the sale of its services to customers. Sales typically occur through the formation of long-term contracts.
