---
layout: post
title: indegene
---

Businessmodel of Indegene
--------------------------

### Customer Segments

Indegene has a segmented market business model, with customer groups that have slightly different needs. The company targets its offerings at providers, payers, and life sciences organizations.

Specific industry categories falling within these segments include biotechnology firms, medical device manufacturers, health plans, healthcare co-ops, and accountable care organizations.

### Value Proposition

Indegene offers three primary value propositions: accessibility, performance, and brand/status.

The company creates accessibility by providing a wide variety of options. It has completed many strategic acquisitions, with targets including Aptilon, Wincere, Encima Group, SKURA, SmartCare, MedCases, and Total Therapeutic Management. These purchases have enabled it to expand its capabilities in areas such as patient and customer engagement, salesforce effectiveness, health quality improvement, and healthcare provider engagement. They have also allowed it to expand its geographical footprint in North America and launch new revenue channels.

The company demonstrates strong performance through tangible results. Specific positive outcomes for clients include the following:

 * A top 3 pharmaceutical firm used Indegene’s solutions to set up multi-country hubs, resulting in 99.7% medical accuracy and 100% compliance
* A top 5 pharmaceutical company used Indegene’s solutions to effectively engage healthcare providers, resulting in the reaching of 100,000 doctors and a 2x average increase in engagement
* A top 10 pharmaceutical firm used Indegene’s Digital Factory solution to carry out a digital transformation, resulting in a 60% reduction in costs and $25 million in savings
 The company has established a strong brand due to its success. It serves more than 85 customers in more than 55 countries. Its employees operate from 14 global offices located throughout the United States, United Kingdom, India, China, and Australia. Lastly, it has won over 50 industry awards in medical, creative, and customer engagement categories. Its honors include the following:

 * The OPPI Innovation in Health Award
* Recognition as one of the 20 Most Promising Pharma and Life Sciences Technology Solution Providers by CIO Review
* Recognition as a leader in the IDC MarketScape Vendor Assessments for Worldwide Pharmaceutical Social Media Analytics and Worldwide Life Science Sales and Marketing BPO
* Recognition as “One of the Best Compaines to Work For“ in the professional services industry by *The Economic Times*
* NCQA certification status for the HEDIS measures within its HEDIS Pro platform two years in a row
 ### Channels

Indegene’s main channel is its business development team. The company promotes its offerings through its website, social media pages, and participation in summits, forums, and conferences.

### Customer Relationships

Indegene’s customer relationship is primarily of a self-service nature. Customers utilize its products while having limited interaction with employees. That said, there is a personal assistance component in the form of phone and e-mail support.

### Key Activities

Indegene’s business model entails designing and developing its products for customers.

### Key Partners

Indegene maintains strategic partnerships with organizations that focus on improving business and health outcomes for healthcare and life science organizations. Specific partners include The Abacus Group, Corporate Call Center, Indigo Medical, and TranScrip.

### Key Resources

Indegene’s main resources are its human resources, who include the technology employees that design and develop its products, the sales employees that promote it, and the customer service personnel that provide support.

Over 50% of its staff members have a medical background, and they have expertise across all core therapy areas including bone, cardiovascular, dermatology, diabetes, immunology, infectious diseases, neurosciences, oncology, ophthalmology, and respiratory.

### Cost Structure

Indegene has a cost-driven structure, aiming to minimize expenses through significant automation. Its biggest cost driver is sales/marketing, a variable expense.

Other major drivers are in the areas of customer support/operations and research/development, both fixed costs.

### Revenue Streams

Indegene has one revenue stream: revenues it generates from the sales of its products to its customers.
