---
layout: post
title: helix
---

Businessmodel of Helix
-----------------------

### Customer Segments

Helix has a mass market business model, with no significant differentiation between customer segments. The company targets its offering at any consumer who wants personal genomics data.

### Value Proposition

Helix offers five primary value propositions: customization, accessibility, convenience, price, and risk reduction.

The company offers customization through its offerings. Along with its partners, it provides personalized products, services, and applications specific to a customer’s genetic data.

The company creates accessibility by providing a wide variety of options. Its services enable consumers to obtain information about their genes as it relate to a broad range of areas, including health, lifestyle, genealogy, nutrition, fitness, and family.

The company offers convenience. Customers can easily view and manage their data in the cloud.

The company provides a price value proposition. It aims to provide information about a consumer’s genomics at a cost of around $100 -- about one-fifth the cost of similar services from competitors.

The company reduces risk by maintaining high safety and security standards. It maintains a protected and secure database built in accordance with CAP, CLIA, and HIPAA guidelines. Consumers will be able to control how their information is accessed through a granular and robust consent process. There will also be a “nuclear button” that enables them to erase all stored data.

### Channels

Helix’s main channel is its website. The company promotes its offering through its social media pages and participation in conferences.

### Customer Relationships

Helix’s customer relationship is primarily of a self-service, automated nature. Customers utilize the service through the main platform while having limited interaction with employees. That said, it will likely offer phone and e-mail support to answer questions.

### Key Activities

Helix’s business model entails developing sequencing and analysis services and maintaining a robust data platform for its customers.

### Key Partners

Helix maintains the following types of partnerships:

App Developers – The company works with developers that create content and design apps enabling its customers to gain new insights into their genomics data. Specific partners include the following:

 * Center for Individualized Medicine at Mayo Clinic – The center will develop apps initially focused on health-related queries and consumer education.
* Good Start Genetics – The firm, which provides pre-conception testing services, will develop apps that help consumers better understand their reproductive health.
 Service Providers – The company works with firms that offer complementary services to its customers. Specific partners include the following:

 * Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings (LabCorp) – The firm provides analysis and interpretation services focused on medically-actionable genetic conditions.
* Duke University – The school will develop education programs focused on genetics and initiatives that support entrepreneurs who build apps on Helix’s platform.
 ### Key Resources

Helix’s main resource is its proprietary cloud-based software platform, which stores customer genomics data.

It maintains an important physical resource in the form of a center with sequencing machines, believed to be the largest in the U.S. Its important human resources are its engineers, scientists, designers, and entrepreneurs with backgrounds in healthcare, consumer technology, and finance.

Lastly, as a new startup it has relied heavily on funding from outside parties, raising $100 million from four investors as of August 2015.

### Cost Structure

Helix has a cost-driven structure, aiming to minimize expenses through significant automation and low-price value propositions. Its biggest cost driver is likely research and development, a fixed cost. Other major drivers are in the areas of product development and sales/marketing, both fixed expenses.

### Revenue Streams

Helix has not yet begun selling its services, but it will likely have three revenue streams:

 * Fees charged for completion of sequencing and analysis services
* Fees charged for access to its proprietary cloud-based data platform
* Commissions obtained from sales of apps through its partners
