---
layout: post
title: mphasis
---

Businessmodel of MphasiS
-------------------------

### Customer Segments

MphasiS has a niche market business model, with a specialized customer segment. The company targets its offerings at firms in the financial services, technology, telecommunications, and logistics industries.

### Value Proposition

MphasiS offers three primary value propositions: performance, risk reduction, and brand/status.

The company has demonstrated strong performance. It has completed over 300 digital projects impacting over a billion users. It has also achieved tangible results in care transformation, reducing cost of care by 65% and increasing time-to-market by 75%.

The company reduces risk by maintaining high standards. It has received ISO 9001:2008 and ISO/IEC 27001:2005 certifications, and is a CMMI v 1.3 Level 5 assessed firm. It also provides ISO, SEI CMMI, and Six Sigma-related services support.

The company has established a strong brand as a result of its success. It is ranked as one of the top IT companies in India. It is also listed in the *Fortune* India 500 and describes itself as a “Digital Partner of Choice“ for four *Fortune *500 firms. Lastly, it has won many honors, including a #2 ranking in the “Top 30 Fastest Growing Tech Companies“ list by Silicon Valley (2016), a #29 ranking in the “100 Largest Financial Technology Vendors“ list by American Banker (2015), and the “Most Distinguished Digital Company of the Year“ award by *The Economic Times‘* Best Tech Brands Awards (2015).

### Channels

MphasiS’s main channel is its direct sales team, which has offices around the world. The company promotes its offering through its website, social media pages, webinars, summits, exhibitions, expos, and conferences.

### Customer Relationships

MphasiS’s customer relationship is primarily of a self-service nature. Customers utilize its services while having limited interaction with employees. That said, there is a personal assistance component in the form of phone and e-mail support.

### Key Activities

MphasiS’s business model entails designing and developing IT services for its customers.

### Key Partners

MphasiS maintains NEXTlabs with the aim of being the ”Preferred Innovation Partner“ for its clients. The program works on developing joint innovative solutions, with an interdisciplinary staff that includes digital strategists, product specialists, developers, graphic designers, user experience designers, data scientists, and business analysts. This team collaborates with customers, startups, representatives from academia, and other technology firms.

Beyond the program, MphasiS has formed strategic business alliances with the following firms:

   ·         Actian
