---
layout: post
title: model-n
---

Businessmodel of Model N
-------------------------

### Customer Segments

Model N provides a range of revenue management solutions to a range of commercial and institutional organisations across multiple entities. As of 30th September 2016, the Company had 122 customers across the following sectors:

 * Pharmaceutical, including life science companies, pharmaceutical producers and distributors and other pharmaceutical research companies;
* Medical Technology, including developers and distributors of medical technologies and medical devices;
* Manufacturing, including manufacturers of electronics products, consumer goods, and industrial components; and
* Technology, including technology companies, semiconductor producers, and software developers.
 The majority of Model N’s customers are from the technology and pharmaceutical sectors, which account for the bulk of the Company’s revenue. The Company’s largest customer was Johnson and Johnson which accounted for around 11% of its annual revenue. The Company also serves high-profile businesses such as AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Amgen, Boston Scientific, Philips Medical Systems, and Bristol Myers Squibb.

Model N is based in the US, which is the Company’s largest market. The Company also provides services to an international client base across markets in Europe.

### Value Propositions

Model N provides value to its clients in the following ways:

 * Its industry standing and reputation, with the Company established as a leading provider of revenue management solutions in the US and internationally, as demonstrated by its ability to secure business from market leading companies such as Pfizer and AstraZeneca;
* Its comprehensive solutions, with the Company offering a broad range of solutions and services – including revenue management and channel data management services – that cater to the needs of customers across multiple business sectors;
* Its proprietary technologies, with the Company implementing a range of proprietary technologies in the development and delivery of its solutions, ensuring that its service offerings are unique within the industry;
* Its network of strategic partners, with the Company working closely with a network of strategic partners around the world that assist the Company in developing and delivering effective, reliable and efficient solutions; and
* Its industry expertise and experience, with the Company employing teams od specialist technical personnel, as well as a team of experienced industry executives, to ensure the effective management of the Company.
 ### Channels

Model N operates a website at www.modeln.com, through which it provides information on its various products and solutions, its partners, its customers, and its operating locations. The Company does not operate an online sales channel, nor does it provide an online customer portal.

Model N primarily makes sales through its in-house direct sales force, which is organised across the Company’s various operating regions. The Company’s sales personnel operate out of its network of sales and administrative offices, including locations in the US, the UK, India, and Switzerland. The Company’s sales personnel can be contacted over the phone or online. Model N’s sales personnel is supported by various solutions engineers and industry domain experts that operate through the Company’s Centre of Excellence.

Model N does not appear to utilise the services of third party channel partners, such as resellers and marketing affiliates, to any significant degree.

### Customer Relationships

Model N does not sell products and services to customers on a self-service basis, nor does it operate a self-service customer portal. The Company does, however, allow customers to request product demonstrations and register an interest in products directly through its website.

Model N principally makes its sales through its direct sales force which is focused on expanding relationships with existing customers and adding new customers.

The Company’s sales personnel consult closely with clients over a period of time in order to fully ascertain their individual circumstances and requirements, tailoring its marketing efforts to communicate effectively to senior executives at all relevant organisations.

Model N hosts an annual customer conference to which customers are invited both as attendees and participants to deliver sessions relevant to the life science and technology industries. The Company also invites potential customers to leverage its strong customer relationships and accelerate sales.

Model N provides ongoing support services to its clients, who are able to contact dedicated sales personnel over the phone or online in order to access personalised technical assistance. The Company operates an online support portal through which it offers a range of online resources, such as webinars, FAQs, and datasheets, that can be accessed independently.

Model N additionally operates social networking accounts with Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn, through which it is able to interact directly with customers and publish regular company updates.

### Key Activities

Model N is a provider of revenue management solutions, in particular offering services to commercial customers operating within the life science and technology industries.

The Company develops solutions that are designed to assist its customers in maximising revenues and reducing revenue compliance risk by optimising their revenue life cycle. The Company offers a broad portfolio of solutions that includes its flagship Revenue Enterprise Cloud, Revenue Intelligence Cloud, and Revvy Revenue Management products.

Model N also offers ancillary services, such as implementation services, managed services, strategic services, and customer support. The Company is based in the US, but serves an international client base including customers in North America and Europe.

### Key Partners

Model N works in close collaboration with a network of partner companies and organisations around the world. The Company’s partners can be organised broadly into the following categories:

 * Supplier and Vendor Partners, including suppliers of services, equipment, and technologies that the Company utilises across its various units in support of its core development and implementation operations;
* Cloud Management Partners, including various cloud technology and online cloud solutions providers that assist in developing and maintaining the Company’s cloud-based products and services;
* Technology Partners, including high-profile technology companies, software developers, and IT service providers that assist in the development of the Company’s online solutions, and assist in maintaining the Company’s IT systems; and
* Consulting Partners, including various multinational consulting and professional services firms, as well as specialist industry consultants, that work closely with the Company across its various activities.
 Model N names a number of its partners on its website. This includes technology partners Adobe, Oracle, IBM Business Partner, and Qlik; and consulting partners HCL, Alliance Life Science, Cognizant, and Cumberland Consulting Group.

### Key Resources

Model N’s key resources are its proprietary technologies and intellectual properties, its software solutions and products, its IT and communications infrastructure, its sales and distribution channels, its partnerships, and its personnel.

Model N uses a range of proprietary technologies in the development and delivery of its solutions. The Company relies on copyright, trade secrets, trademark, patent laws, and contractual restrictions protect its proprietary rights. According to its annual report, as of 30th September 2016 the Company has five US patent applications, one international patent application, and five issued patents expiring between 2023 and 2034.

Model N additionally owns and or leases a number of physical properties around the world that comprise its office network.

### Cost Structure

Model N incurs costs in relation to the development of its technologies and solutions, the development and maintenance of its IT and communications infrastructure, the procurement of services, the management of its partnerships, the implementation of marketing and advertising campaigns, and the retention of its personnel.

In 2016 Model N recorded total operating expenses in the amount of $86.02 million. This included research and development expenses in the amount of $23.71 million, sales and marketing expenses in the amount of $32.26 million, and general and administrative expenses in the amount of $30.05 million.

### Revenue Streams

Model N generates revenue through the development and sale of revenue management software solutions to companies across the technology and life sciences sectors. The Company derives its revenue through the licensing of its software products, as well as under sales and service contracts and that appear to be agreed on a case-by-case basis.

In 2016 Model N generated total revenue in the amount of $106.97 million, up on the $93.77 million recorded by the Company in 2015. The bulk of the Company’s revenue, around $86.39 million, was attributed to software-as-a-service and maintenance offerings. The remaining $20.58 million was attributed to licensing and implementation operations.
