---
layout: post
title: flexport
---

Businessmodel of Flexport
--------------------------

### Customer Segments

Flexport serves both institutional and retail clients.

 * Institutional – For institutional clients, it provides an integrated service ranging from port-to-port shipment to supply chain optimization, all with the use of proprietary technology and with an all-in pricing.
* Retail – For retail clients, it provides a door-to-door service with tracking available 24/7 via an app.
 ### Value Proposition

Flexport’s main value proposition is that it uses technology to offer an integrated quality service for international shipping – it can provide convenient and fast door-to-door or port-to-port service.

It also leverages heavily on technology, with clients being able to track shipments, conduct and review analytics, and even generate customizable shipment and supply chain reports through an app.

It is transparent, allowing customers to compare freight rates and to negotiate. Another big value proposition is the speed of service – it boasts a turnaround time of less than 24 hours for customized quotes.

### Channels

Flexport mainly operates online, with sales being either online or through one of their international offices in San Francisco, New York, Amsterdam, or Hong Kong.

### Customer Relationships

Flexport maintains customer relationships through online channels, via its online dashboard and app. It can also handle customers over the phone or at one of its international offices.

### Key Activities

Flexport’s main activity is the facilitation of international shipment, and the provision of supply chain analytics and optimization services.

### Key Partners

Flexport’s key partners are freight forwarding companies, specifically in ocean FCL/LCL, air freight, trucking and fulfillment.

### Key Resources

Flexport’s key resource is its proprietary software platform that allows consumers to access and negotiate pricing, track shipments, perform and review analytics and optimize supply chains.

### Cost Structure

Flexport’s key costs are research and development, staff, and partnership costs.

### Revenue Streams

Flexport does not publish its financial data. It is expected that its main revenue streams come from institutional clients, of which there are at least 600, with at least 8 being publicly traded companies.
