---
layout: post
title: ipsoft
---

Businessmodel of IPSoft
------------------------

### Customer Segments

IPsoft has a mass market business model, with no significant differentiation between customer segments. The company targets its offering at firms of all industries and sizes that desire an AI platform. That said, its customers primarily fall within the media, finance, and healthcare sectors.

### Value Proposition

IPsoft offers four primary value propositions: convenience, performance, risk reduction, and brand/status.

The company offers convenience by simplifying operations for clients. Its Amelia software platform mimics human intelligence, as it can understand human language, learn through observation, and make decisions accordingly. Because of this, it can perform a broad range of service desk roles. These range from processing insurance claims to assisting customers with the opening of bank accounts to registering patients for entry into hospitals.

The company has demonstrated strong performance through tangible results, which are as follows:

 * On average, its IPcenter solution resolves 56% of incidents without human intervention
* IPcenter has been shown to produce35% efficiency gains within 90 days while reducing mean time to resolution (MTTR) by 60%
* Its Amelia solution understands 20 languages; it also comprehends context, can apply logic, and can infer implications
* The Amelia platform learns by reading manuals, and can read 300 pages within 30 seconds
 The company reduces risk. If the Amelia solution cannot answer a question, it passes the client’s query onto a human, but remains in the loop in order to learn how to solve similar issues in future. Ipsoft also ensures the well-being of the system by performing security scans, ongoing audits, and compliance reporting that confirms adherence with industry standards such as HIPPA and PCI.

The company has established a strong brand due to its success. It has 18 offices in 15 countries worldwide that serve over 500 brands. Its clients include two out of 10 *Fortune* 100 firms and seven out of 10 of the world’s largest IT service providers. Lastly, it has won many a number of honors, including an Alsbridge Innovation Award for autonomic-enabled IT transformation.

### Channels

IPsoft’s main channel is its direct sales team. The company promotes its offering through its social media pages and participation in expos, symposiums, and conferences.

### Customer Relationships

IPsoft’s customer relationship is primarily of a dedicated personal assistance nature. It assists customers in the following ways:

Support Services – IPsoft provides 24/7 operational support for the IPcenter platform. While the solution is able to solve most issues, the customer service team is always available to help. In addition, the company keeps the platform up-to-date through code updates and patches.

Dedicated Support Services – Ipsoft provides services through which assigned staff members work closely with clients to implement and maintain their solutions; they are as follows:

 * Service Transition Team – Completes end-to-end deployment and integration of the IPcenter platform. The group includes technical leads, engineers, and experienced project managers.
* Customer Relationship Manager (CRM) – Coordinates the delivery of services in conjunction with the Technical Executive and Lead Engineers. Also acts as a liaison between the client and internal IPsoft teams. Specific responsibilities include ensuring quality of service delivery, reporting on SLAs/SLOs, maintaining KPIs, and monitoring customer satisfaction.
* Dedicated Technical Executive – Aligns technical aspects of IPsoft’s offerings with client’s expectations and requirements. Specific responsibilities include daily ticket reviews, weekly reviews of automation progress, and monthly reports on KPIs/SLAs. Chosen based on makeup of customer’s environment. Is usually an L3 engineer.
 Training Services – Ipsoft has a training team that maintains IPuniversity, a platform that provides instructor-led and self-paced education on its technologies and on technical skills in general. The team is also in the process of creating an IPcenter certification program.

Despite this orientation, there is a self-service component. The company’s website features a “Newsroom” section that includes self-help resources such as white papers, analyst reports, case studies, and blog posts.

### Key Activities

IPsoft’s business model entails designing and developing its software and maintaining its cloud platform for customers.

### Key Partners

IPsoft maintains partnerships with various technology firms and service providers in order to extend its reach, enhance its solutions, and provide consulting services. Specific partners are Deloitte, HfS, Kairos, Kinetic, Cisco, Arvato Systems Business Services, and Accenture.

### Key Resources

IPsoft’s main resource is its proprietary software platform.

It depends on human resources such as engineering employees that develop software and maintain the platform, sales employees that promote it, training staff that provide instruction, and customer service staff that provide support.

### Cost Structure

IPsoft has a value-driven structure, aiming to provide a premium proposition through significant personal service and frequent product improvements.

Its biggest cost driver is likely cost of services, a variable expense. Other major drivers are in the areas of research/development and customer support/operations, both fixed costs.

### Revenue Streams

IPsoft has one revenue stream: revenues generated from the subscription fees it charges for access to its cloud platforms. Sales staff must be contacted directly for pricing details.
