---
layout: post
title: astreya
---

Businessmodel of Astreya
-------------------------

### Customer Segments

Astreya has a mass market business model, with no significant differentiation between customer segments. The company targets its offerings at organizations of all industries and sizes.

### Value Proposition

Astreya offers four primary value propositions: accessibility, performance, risk reduction, and brand/status.

The company creates accessibility by providing a wide variety of options. It offers a broad range of services and solutions, including Contingent IT Workforce Service, Self-Service Peripherals, On-Site IT Service, Mobile Provisioning, Asset Lifecycle Management, Network Optimization, Video Conferencing Management, and Data Center Management.

The company demonstrates strong performance through tangible results. Specific positive outcomes for clients include the following:

 * A leading technology firm used Astreya’s solutions to streamline its billing processes and reduce out of funds errors, resulting in the recovery of $12 million while delivering 370% ROI
* A top Internet search firm used Astreya’s solutions to provide dedicated helpdesk first response support, resulting in a 50% reduction in time to resolve network connectivity tickets
* A client (industry unnamed) used Astreya’s solutions to hasten the speed of support for its end-users, resulting in a 25% decrease in tickets escalated to field support
* A client (industry unnamed) used Astreya’s solutions to establish an onsite tech support Service Bar, resulting in the saving of $4 million in equipment costs
* A client (industry unnamed) used Astreya’s solutions to implement equipment tracking mechanisms, resulting in savings of $230,000 per month due to effective inventory management
 The company reduces risk by maintaining high quality standards. It conducts an intensive hiring process to ensure that its workers are qualified. This process includes the following steps:

 2. Referrals & Sourcing Candidates
4. VET/Screen Potential Candidates
6. Skills Assessment Online Testing
8. Technical & Management Interviews
10. Reference Check
12. Background Screen
14. Onboard Astreya Qualified Team
 Once job candidates have been accepted, they are assigned a Success Manager who monitors their performance to ensure that they maintain a high-quality level of service.

The company has established a strong brand due to its success. It has more than 700 employees operating out of 35 countries across three continents. It regularly staffs over 100 sites, remotely supports over 250 client locations, and managers over 500,000 tickets annually. Lastly, it has several prominent clients, including Cisco, PayPal, eBay, Eventbrite, Calico, Dropbox, Shape, and Nvidia.

### Channels

Astreya’s main channel is its business development team. The company promotes its offerings through its website, social media pages, and participation in forums and conferences.

### Customer Relationships

Astreya’s customer relationship is primarily of a personal assistance nature. Its employees provide dedicated service to its clients as outsourced workers. Specific services provided include design, on-site support and management, training, and contract management. Astreya also provides customer support for clients through a Senior Engineer who offers real-time technical support and guidance, and an Account Manager who provides high-level support, handling all general concerns.

Despite this orientation, there is a self-service component. The company’s website features a “Resources You Need” section that includes data sheets, case studies, brochures, and videos.

### Key Activities

Astreya’s business model entails designing, developing, and delivering its services for its customers.

### Key Partners

Astreya’s key partners are the suppliers that provide it with the equipment it needs to run its operations.

### Key Resources

Astreya’s main resources are its human resources, who include the IT workers that deliver technology services, the business development employees that promote their services, and the customer service personnel that provide support.

### Cost Structure

Astreya has a value-driven structure, aiming to provide a premium proposition through significant personal service and frequent service enhancements. Its biggest cost driver is likely cost of services, a variable cost.

Other major drivers are in the areas of customer support/operations and administration, both fixed costs.

### Revenue Streams

Astreya has three revenue streams:

 * Staffing service revenues
* Consulting service revenues
* Product revenues
