---
layout: post
title: asiainfo
---

Businessmodel of AsiaInfo
--------------------------

### Customer Segments

AsiaInfo has a niche market business model, with a specialized customer segment. The company targets its offerings at telecommunications service providers in China.

### Value Proposition

AsiaInfo offers two primary value propositions: risk reduction and brand/status.

The company reduces risk by maintaining high quality standards. It has received several certifications, including CMMI Level 5, ISO27001, and ISO9001.

The company has established a strong brand due to its success. It has more than 15,000 employees worldwide. Its clients include China Mobile, AIS, China Telecom, Nepal Telecom, China Unicom, U Mobile, Zong, and Hello Nepal. Through these customers, it serves over one billion end-users/subscribers. It processes six billion CDRs and analyzes seven petrabytes of data on a daily basis.

It claims a more than 50% share of the Chinese market in Billing, CRM, and Business Intelligence sectors, and its Veris product suite is the top telecommunications BSS solution in Asia. Lastly, it has won many honors, including the following:

 * Ranking on the The Global Outsourcing 100 by the International Association of Outsourcing Professionals (IAOP)
* Recognition as one of the Top 20 Chinese Software Innovation Companies by the Copyright Protection Center of China
* Glotel's BSS Transformation Excellence Award
* The Business Service Innovation Award at the Global Telecoms Business Innovation Awards
* Winner of the OTT Service Launch category of the Telecoms.com Awards
 ### Channels

AsiaInfo’s main channel is its direct sales team. The company promotes its offerings through its website, social media pages, and participation in summits, forums, and conferences.

### Customer Relationships

AsiaInfo’s customer relationship is primarily of a personal assistance nature. The company assists customers in the following ways:

Support Services – The company provides general phone and e-mail support.

Training Services – The company offers in-depth training on its products and services to clients through high-level courses. Classes are customized to suit the level of knowledge needed, and are available on an onsite or remote basis.

Professional Services – The company provides the following services:

 * Strategic and Informational Consulting – Includes product rationalization, business strategy, and business process optimization
* Managed Services – Includes system implementation/operation and ongoing support for ops enhancement
* Network Management – Includes OSS support, network quality monitoring, and root cause analysis
* System Integration – Includes business requirements analysis, technical integration, data migration, and operational readiness testing
 Despite this orientation, there is a self-service component. The company’s website features a “Resources“ section that includes useful tools such as white papers, data sheets, infographics, webinars, and videos.

### Key Activities

AsiaInfo’s business model entails designing, developing, and delivering its products and services to customers.

### Key Partners

AsiaInfo is a member of various associations in the telecommunications sector. It partners with other association members to promote the interests of the industry. Specific associations include TM Forum and the NGMN Alliance.

### Key Resources

AsiaInfo’s main resources are its human resources, who include the engineers that design, develop, and deliver its products and services, the sales employees that promote them, the training/consulting employees that provide instruction/advisory services, and the customer service personnel that provide support.

### Cost Structure

AsiaInfo has a value-driven cost structure, aiming to provide a premium proposition through significant personal service and frequent service enhancements. Its biggest cost driver is likely cost of services, a variable expense. Other major drivers are in the areas of sales/marketing and customer support/operations, both fixed costs.

### Revenue Streams

AsiaInfo has one revenue stream: revenues it generates from fees charged to customers for the sale of its services.
