---
layout: post
title: acronis
---

Businessmodel of Acronis
-------------------------

### Customer Segments

Acronis has a segmented market business model, with customer groups that have slightly different needs. The company targets its offerings at consumers and businesses.

### Value Proposition

Acronis offers three primary value propositions: accessibility, cost reduction, and brand/status.

The company creates accessibility by providing a wide variety of options. It offers solutions for data in remote, local, mobile, and cloud devices. Also, its products have been certified to work with Ubuntu Software, Red Hat Software, Mandriva Linux, and SuSE Certified Linux Software. It has been able to expand its capabilities due to numerous acquisitions. Its purchases include BackupAgent, nScaled, and GroupLogic. These acquisitions have enabled it to greatly expand its portfolio.

The company reduces costs in a variety of ways. It regularly provides special offers, such as “buy one license, get one free” and “protect five computers for the price of three.” It also offers free trials.

The company has established a strong brand due to its success. It protects the data of over 500,000 businesses in various industries and over 5.5 million consumers in more than 145 countries. It employs over 900 people. Lastly, it has won over 45 awards. Its many honors include the following:

 * Recognition as a Gold Winner in the the Server Backup Software category by Top 10 Reviews
* Recognition as one of CRN Magazine‘s 25 Coolest Mobile Software & Service Vendors
* The Channel Pro Reader’s Choice Award for Best Backup and Disaster Recovery
* Recognition as a Major Player in the IDC MarketScape: North America Disaster Recovery-as-a-Service Provider 2015 Vendor Assessment
* PC Magazine’s Editor’s Choice Award for the Acronis True Image Product
 ### Channels

Acronis’ main channel is its direct sales team. It also sells its products through a network of distributors, resellers, and service providers. The company promotes its offerings through its website, social media pages, sponsorships, and participation in conferences.

### Customer Relationships

Acronis’ customer relationship is primarily of a self-service nature. Customers utilize its products while having limited interaction with employees. The company’s website features a “Resources” section with useful tools such as articles, white papers, data sheets, case studies, solution briefs, executive summaries, evaluation guides, infographics, and videos. The site also provides analyst reports and product documentation.

Despite this orientation, there is a personal assistance component in the form of 24/7 phone, e-mail, and live chat assistance. There is also a community element in the form of a peer forum.

### Key Activities

Acronis’ business model entails designing and developing its software for customers.

### Key Partners

Acronis has over 50,000 partners globally. It maintains the following types of partnerships:

Service Providers Program – The company works with firms that provide services to its customers to assist with the use of its products.

Resellers Program – The company works with firms that sell its products and offer related services in order to extend its reach.

OEM Program – The company works with firms that bundle its products into their software and hardware offerings in order to create enhanced solutions for customers.

Affiliates Program – The company works with firms that promote its offerings on their websites and other platforms, offering them a commission of up to 50% for completed sales.

Acronis provides partners with training programs, sales/marketing resources, 24/7 support, and access to a Partner Portal. Specific partners include ADN, CDW, Cloud Distribution, Comparex, HEG, Ingram Micro, Silvereye, and TechData.

Beyond these partners, Acronis also maintains technology alliances with ConnectWise, cPanel, Kaseya, LabTech, Microsoft, Odin, VMware, and Virtuozzo.

### Key Resources

Acronis’ main resources are its human resources, who include the engineers that design and develop its products, the sales employees that sell them, and the customer service employees that provide support.

It maintains important physical resources in the form of research and development centers in the United States, Russia, and Singapore, and cloud data centers in the U.S., Germany, France, Russia, Japan, and Singapore. It places a high priority on intellectual property, with over 100 patents. Lastly, it has relied on funding from outside parties, raising $11 million from three investors as of January 2004.

### Cost Structure

Acronis has a cost-driven structure, aiming to minimize expenses through significant automation. Its biggest cost driver is likely sales/marketing, a fixed cost. Other major drivers are in the areas of customer support/operations and administration, both fixed costs.

### Revenue Streams

Acronis has one revenue stream: revenues it generates from the sale of its products to customers.
