---
layout: post
title: sprinklr
---

Businessmodel of Sprinklr
--------------------------

### Customer Segments

Sprinklr has a mass market business model, with no significant differentiation between customer groups. The company targets its offerings at enterprises of all industries and sizes.

### Value Proposition

Sprinklr offers three primary value propositions: convenience, risk reduction, and brand/status.

The company offers convenience by making life simpler for customers. Its software platform is an end-to-end solution that provides functionality for owned media, paid media, and earned media.

The company reduces risk by maintaining high security standards. It has completed examinations from AICPA/SOC, enabling it demonstrate strong levels of operational visibility. Specifically, it has received the following certifications: SOC 1 (SSAE 16) TYPE I, SOC 1 Type II, and SOC 2 Type II (SSAE 16). It has also received social media certifications from Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, Twitter, and Bit.ly. Lastly, it has been named a “Top Rated Platform“ by TrustRadius Buyer’s Guide.

The company has established a strong brand due to its success. It powers over four billion social connections and operates in over 150 countries. It serves over 1,200 brands, including:

 * Over 50% of the *Fortune* 50
* Four of the top five U.S. banks
* Five of the top eight U.S. insurance companies
* Four of the top seven hospitality companies
* Nine of the top 15 global technology companies
 Specific customers include Microsoft, Nike, McDonald’s, Samsung, HP, and P&G. Lastly, Sprinklr has won many honors, including ranking as a "Leader" in Forrester Research‘s 2014 Listening Wave and the 2014 Award for New Product Innovation Leadership in North America by Frost & Sullivan.

### Channels

Sprinklr’s main channel is its direct sales team. The company promotes its offerings through its website, social media pages, and participation in workshops, webinars, and conferences.

### Customer Relationships

Sprinklr’s customer relationship is primarily of a personal assistance nature. The company assists customers through the following professional services:

Enablement - A process that includes audits, interactive onsite and virtual training programs, certifications, and sofware implementation.

Success Management – Sprinklr assigns clients a Success Manager who uses various tools and resources to ensure their social strategy is optimized.

Transformation Services – Include business process optimization, solution design, and communication design services.

Managed Services – Sprinklr has managed services consultants who provide administrative assistance in support of software deployments.

Strategy and Analytics – Sprinklr has strategy and analytics consultants who create and measure social programs for clients.

Moderation Services – Sprinklr has a moderation team that assists clients with social conversation issues such as content triage, basic or complex response, and influencer identification.

Despite this orientation, there is a self-service component. The company’s website features a “Resources“ section that includes white papers, case studies, reports, and webinars.

### Key Activities

Sprinklr’s business model entails designing, developing, and distributing its products and related services for customers.

### Key Partners

Sprinklr maintains a partner program featuring the following types of partners:

 * Global Services Providers - Include Accenture, Cognizant, Deloitte, IBM, and Pitney Bowes
* Leading Agencies – Include AKQA, MRM, Mason Zimbler, RGA, Trellist, and Tribal Panama
* Tech/Solution Providers - Clarabridge, Moxie Software, Opal, RichRelevance, SHIFT, and ThisMoment
 Sprinklr also partners with developers by providing them with a variety of web service APIs so they can create web applications to integrate with data within Sprinklr’s system. The developers are given access to a portal through which they can obtain API documentation and manage API keys.

### Key Resources

Sprinklr’s main resources are its human resources, including the technology employees that design and develop its software, the sales employees that sell it, the training/consulting employees that provide instruction/advisory services, and the customer service personnel that provide support.

### Cost Structure

Sprinklr has a value-driven structure, aiming to provide a premium position through significant personal service and frequent service enhancements.

Its biggest cost driver is likely cost of services, a variable expense. Other major drivers are in the areas of sales/marketing and customer support/operations, both fixed costs.

### Revenue Streams

Sprinklr has one revenue stream: revenues it generates from the sale of its products and services to its customers.
