---
layout: post
title: ncs-group
---

Businessmodel of NCS Group
---------------------------

### Customer Segments

NCS Group has a mass market business model, with no significant differentiation between customer groups. The company targets its offerings at organizations across industries and sizes.

### Value Proposition

NCS Group offers five primary value propositions: accessibility, convenience, innovation, risk reduction, and brand/status.

The company creates accessibility by providing a wide variety of options. Its capabilities include outsourcing, consulting, applications development, infrastructure management, systems integration, portal solutions, cloud computing services, and business analytics.

The company offers convenience by making life simpler for customers. It utilizes a proprietary process called the Business Value Model (Bizval) for all of its client engagements. The process focuseds on the following three areas:

 * Outcome Focus – Defining the outcomes of change so that organizations can achieve clarity for their goals and objectives and establish full focus on their business pursuit.
* Stakeholder Centric – Helping firms garner multi-stakeholder collaboration and participation to ensure commitment to their goals.
* Time to Value – Reducing the time needed to deliver value by creating the sense of urgency required to gain focus and co-operation on high-value activities.
 The company places a strong emphasis on innovation. It maintains an initiative called Solutions for Urbanised Future (SURF) whose aim is to develop and produce innovative solutions that positively affect the lives of residents in a given area and transform public services. These services include transport, healthcare, education, and  public safety. The solutions are enabled by data and analytics, mobility, sensing technology, security, social networking, machine-to-machine, and the cloud.

The company reduces risk by maintaining high quality standards. It has obtained several certifications, including the following:

 * Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) Level 5
* ISO 9001 certified
* ISO 20000 IT Service Management System
* ISO 27001 Information Security Management System
* SS507 Singapore Standard for Business Continuity
 The company has established a powerful brand due to its success. It bills itself as the leading information, communications and technology (ICT) service provider, with a presence in over 40 cities in more than 22 countries throughout the Asia-Pacific and Europe/the Middle East/Africa (EMEA). It has the largest pool of Certified IT Project Managers in Singapore. It has implemented over 3,000 large-scale, multi-platform, and mission-critical projects for Singapore's government agencies and ministries, and has several blue-chip clients. Lastly, it has won many honors, including the following:

 * Ranking as the No. 1 Partner in ASEAN by Cisco Top Overall Business 2016
* The Knowledge Ready Organisation (KRO) Award 2016 from the Information & Knowledge Management Society (iKMS) Singapore
* A 2016 Bronze Stevie Award for Contact Centre of the Year
* A 2015 Silver MOB-EX AWARD for Most Informative Use of Mobile
* A CIO Asia 100 Honorees Award
 ### Channels

NCS Group’s main channel is its direct sales team. The company promotes its offering through its website and social media pages.

### Customer Relationships

NCS Group’s customer relationship is primarily of a personal assistance nature. The company assists customers in the following ways:

 * Consulting Services – The company offers services that combine best practices, thought leadership, technological expertise, and best-of-breed alliances.
* Development and Integration Services – The company offers project and risk management capabilities based on proven practices, processes, and tools.
 Despite this orientation, there is also a self-service component. The company’s website includes a “Thought Leadership” section that features white papers on relevant topics. It also provides access to an e-mail newsletter with service updates.

### Key Activities

NCS Group’s business model entails designing, developing, and delivering its services for its customers.

### Key Partners

NCS Group frequently pursues collaborations with leading players in the ICT industry for strategic purposes. Specifically, it aims to combine offerings in order to produce best-of-breed solutions for customers and identify new customers so it can expand its geographic reach.

The company’s technology partners include Alcatel-Lucent, Checkpoint, Cisco Systems, EMC, HP, IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, Polycom, SAP, Symantec, Tibco, and VMWare.

### Key Resources

NCS Group’s main resources are its human resources, who include the IT and communications engineering professionals that design, develop, and deliver its services, the sales personnel that promote them, and the consultants that provide advisory support.

### Cost Structure

NCS Group has a value-driven structure, aiming to provide a premium proposition through significant personal service and frequent service enhancements. Its biggest cost driver is likely cost of services, a variable expense. Other major drivers are in the areas of sales/marketing and customer support/operations, both fixed costs.

### Revenue Streams

NCS Group has one revenue stream: revenues it generates from the sale of its services to its customers. Sales typically occur through the formation of short- and long-term contracts.
