---
layout: post
title: info-edge
---

Businessmodel of Info Edge
---------------------------

### Customer Segments

Info Edge serves a large customer base, primarily in the recruitment and job-search sphere, including individual and commercial clients. These customers can be organised broadly into the following categories:

 * Individuals, comprising general consumers who are seeking new jobs or are looking for alternative career opportunities, as well as users of matrimonial and education classifieds website;
* Recruitment Professionals, comprising various individuals and companies operating in the professional recruitment sector; and
* Businesses, comprising commercial enterprises across multiple sectors that use the Company’s services to identify potential new hires and assist in their recruitment process.
 Info Edge is based in India, which is also the Company’s core market. The Company’s recruitment platform is also available to customers across Asia Pacific, the Middle East, Europe, including jobseekers in the Philippines, Oman, Kuwait, and Qatar.

### Value Propositions

Info Edge provides value to its clients in the following ways:

 * Its industry standing and reputation, with the Company established as a leading provider of online recruitment services to consumers and commercial entities in its various markets across Asia Pacific, the Middle East, and Europe;
* Its varied services, with the Company offering its customers an extensive range of services, primarily in relation to job searches and professional recruitment, as well as in relation to property and real estate services;
* Its international reach, with the Company operating recruitment portals that offer market-specific information and job opportunities in various markets across Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East, including in Oman, the Philippines, Kuwait, and Qatar;
* The quality of its customer service, with the Company offering it’s a high-degree of customer care to its clients, including personalised customer support; and
* Its industry expertise and experience, with the Company employing personnel with experience of the recruitment sector as well as technical information technology professionals, in addition to a team of experienced industry executives.
 ### Channels

Info Edge operates a website at www.infoedge.com, through which it provides information on its various services, platforms, and operating markets. The Company operates several online platforms, most notably Naukri.com, through which it provides a range of recruitment services to jobseekers and employers. The Company operates a second Naukrigulf.com portal, through which customers across the Middle East and South East Asia can search for jobs. In addition to its flagship recruitment platform,

Info Edge also operates education classifieds portal Shiksha.com, Indian matrimonial portal Jeevansathi.com, and real estate portal 99acres.com. Many of these platforms, notably Naukri.com, has their own mobile apps for iOS and Android, through which customers can access a range of functions.

Info Edge additionally operates its own in-house sales force that deals directly with the Company’s clients, in particular its commercial customers. The Company’s sales personnel operate principally out of the Company’s offices in Noida and Delhi, India. Info Edge does not appear to utilise the services of third party channel partners.

Its individual platforms, however, appear to have affiliate programs in place, under which various third party websites and online companies assist in driving traffic to the Company’s online offerings in return for commissions.

### Customer Relationships

Info Edge provides a wide range of services and resources to its clients on a self-service basis through its multiple online platforms, including Naukri.com, 99.acres.com, Jeevansathi.com, and Shiksha.com. These platforms allow customers to search for jobs and properties, apply for open positions, and search for potential hires without interacting with members of the Company’s sales and service teams.

Info Edge provides a greater degree of personal assistance to its commercial clients, to which it provides a range of services through its direct sales force. The Company is able to tailor certain of its services to suit the individual needs of its commercial clients where possible, and seeks to establish longstanding relationships through high-quality customer care.

Info Edge provides ongoing support to its clients. Customers are able to contact dedicated support staff at each of the Company’s platforms, through which they are able to access personalised technical and general assistance with queries and concerns. The Company also provides a range of online resources through its websites, including career tips and interview guides.

Additionally, Info Edge operates social media accounts with Facebook, Google+, and Twitter, through which it is able to publish company updates and interact directly with customers.

### Key Activities

Info Edge functions as a holding company. Through its subsidiaries, the Company provides a range information technology solutions and online services to individuals and commercial enterprises.

The Company is involved primarily in online classifieds business. Info Edge aligns its operations into three reportable business segments: Recruitment Solutions, comprising the operations of its flagship Naukri.com recruitment portal; 99acres, comprising the operations of its property and real estate portal; and Others, comprising e operations of its education and matrimonial classifieds businesses Jeevansathi.com and Shiksha.com.

The Company is based in India, which serves as its core market. Info Edge’s platforms, notably Naukri.com, also serve clients across markets across Asia Pacific, the Middle East, and Europe.

### Key Partners

Info Edge works closely with a broad network of partner companies and organisations that support the development and operation of the Company’s various online businesses. These partners can be organised broadly into the following categories:

 * Supplier and Vendor Partners, comprising suppliers of services, equipment, and technologies that are utilised in the development and operation of the Company’s various online portals, as well as companies to which certain non-technical functions can be outsourced;
* Affiliate and Marketing Partners, comprising a range of online businesses and websites that assist in marketing the Company’s services and seek to drive traffic to the Company’s various platforms in return for commissions;
* Technology Partners, comprising a range of technology companies and information technology services providers that assist in the development and maintenance of the Company’s online platforms;
* Education Partners, comprising an international network of academic institutions with which the Company collaborates on providing services to potential and existing students; and
* Strategic and Alliance Partners, comprising companies across a range of sectors with which the Company collaborates on various joint projects.
 Info Edge has a number of partnerships in place. The Company has also invested in a range of companies in recent years, including online restaurant guide Zomato.

### Key Resources

Info Edge’s key resources are its proprietary technologies and intellectual properties, its online platforms, its IT and communications infrastructure, its sales and marketing channels, its partnerships, its physical properties, and its personnel.

Info Edge owns a number of intellectual properties, including its brands, such as Naukri and 99acres. A search of records published by Intellectual Property India identified no patent applications filed in Info Edge’s name.

Info Edge additionally owns and or leases a number of physical properties, principally across India. The properties comprise the Company’s network of offices, including in Noida and Delhi.

### Cost Structure

Info Edge incurs costs in relation to the development of its technologies and online platforms, the maintenance and development of its IT and communications infrastructure, the operation of its sales and distribution channels, the implementation of marketing and advertising campaigns, the management of its partnerships, the procurement of professional services, and the retention of its personnel.

In 2016 Info Edge recorded total expenses in the amount of INR 5.87 billion. This included network and other expenses in the amount of INR 229.7 million, employee costs in the amount of INR 3.21 billion, and advertising and promotion costs in the amount of INR 1.32 billion.

### Revenue Streams

Info Edge generates revenue through the provision of various services through its online recruitment, property, matrimonial, and education classifieds portals. The Company derives its revenue in the form of fees associated with its various services and advertising solutions. It also derives revenue through commission income on property bookings placed with builders and developers.

In 2016 Info Edge recorded total net sales in the amount of INR 7.23 billion, up on the INR 6.11 billion recorded by the Company in 2015. The bulk of the Company’s revenue is attributed to its recruitment business in particular its flagship Naukri.com portal.
