---
layout: post
title: azuga
---

Businessmodel of Azuga
-----------------------

### Customer Segments

Azuga serves a range of commercial and industrial companies that utilise a fleet of vehicles in the delivery of their various services. These clients cover a range of industries, and can be organised broadly into the following the categories:

 * Transportation, comprising transportation companies, commercial fleet management companies, car rental businesses, and other transportation providers;
* Contracting and Construction, comprising construction and industrial contracting firms, manufacturing companies, and other industrial businesses;
* Logistics and Distribution, comprising specialist courier service providers, distribution companies, logistics companies, and delivery service providers; and
* Other Commercial Service Providers, including pest control businesses, landscaping, and commercial security companies.
 Azuga names a number of its clients on its websites. This includes companies such as Uber, CG Appliance Express, Turner Pest Control, National HVAC Company, Earthtech Landscape, and Steritech.

Azuga’s core market is its native US. The Company, however, also serves an international client base across north America, including in Mexico and Canada, as well as in the UK. The company also serves clients in other international markets through a network of channel partners.

### Value Propositions

Azuga provides value to its clients in the following ways:

 * Its industry standing and reputation, with the Company established as a leading provider of telematics solutions, having a positive track record and reputation, which is demonstrated by its ability to attract high-profile customers such as Uber;
* Its proprietary technologies and systems, with the Company developing and utilising a range of proprietary technologies in order to deliver unique and innovative solutions, its offerings able to assist a broad range of clients with in-depth telematics analysis;
* The accessibility and ease-of-use of its offerings, with the Company’s core telematics products accessible and simple to use for all members of the workforce, requiring no technical know-how and being accessible via mobile apps;
* Its commitment to innovation, with the Company committing a significant portion of its resources to the development and integration of new and innovative solutions, with a view to providing clients with cutting edge products; and
* Its international reach, with the Company serving an extensive domestic client base in the US, as well as across other markets in North Americas, such as Canada and Mexico, as well as the in the UK.
 ### Channels

Azuga operates website at www.azuga.com, through which it provides information on its various products, services, solutions, and target markets. While the Company does not operate an online sales channel, it does allow clients to request a customised quote, a free trial, or a demonstration through its website.

The Company also operates an online client portal, through which customers can manage their accounts, view key information and data, and manage subscription payments. Customers are also able to access key information and tools through the Company’s mobile apps, which are available on iOS and Android devices.

Azuga make sits sales primarily through its own in-house direct sales force, which is organised geographically, with separate teams for its North American and UK markets. The company’s sales and service personnel operate out of the Company’s offices in San Jose, California, and London, UK.

The Company also markets and sells its products and solutions to clients via a network of third party channel partners, including systems integration partners, value added resellers, distributors, and sales agents, particularly in international jurisdictions.

### Customer Relationships

While Azuga does not sell its products on a self-service basis, clients are able to request personalised quotes, free trials, and product demonstrations through an online contact form. Once purchased, the Company’s software solutions are accessible to clients through the Company’s cloud-based platform on a self-service basis, as well as through its mobile apps, which can be downloaded independently via the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store.

Azuga makes its sales to customers primarily through its in-house direct sales force, the members of which consult closely with clients in order to provide tailored solutions and personalised quotes based on the size and operations of each individual customer. The Company seeks to establish long-term relationships with its clients, providing high-quality customer service to its customers.

Azuga offers ongoing support to its clients, who are able to contact the Company’s support personnel and receive tailored assistance over the phone or online. The Company additionally offers a range of online resources such as user guides, FAQs, and articles that can be access via the Azuga website.

Azuga additionally operates social media accounts with Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and YouTube, through which it is able to publish company updates and interact directly with customers.

### Key Activities

Azuga is a provider software solutions and telematics services to commercial and institutional clients with large commercial fleets. This includes transport companies, logistics and delivery service providers, construction and industrial contractors, and various other commercial businesses, such as landscapers and pest control companies.

The Company’s flagship offering is a cloud-based fleet management platform that allows users to track, monitor, and analyse telematics data, enabling them to more cost effectively and efficiently manage the operations of their vehicle fleet. The Company has operations in the Us and in the UK, serving an international customer base primarily in North America and the UK.

### Key Partners

Azuga works closely with a network of partner companies in the development and delivery of its software solutions. The Company organises its partners into the following four core categories:

 * Hardware Partners, comprising various technology companies and providers of hardware, devices, and equipment that are utilised by the Company in the delivery of its various solutions;
* Telecommunications Partners, comprising a range of telecommunications companies and network operators that assist in providing wireless network services that support the Company’s core telematics solutions;
* Services and Software Partners, comprising a range of technology service providers and software developers that assist the Company in developing, implementing, and maintaining its software solutions; and
* Integration Partners, comprising a range of technology companies and software solution providers that assist in integrating Azuga’s telematics functionality into their own service offerings.
 Azuga has a number of key partnerships in place. It names a number of these partners on its website, including hardware partners Danlaw, Cai Amp, Navika; telecommunications partners Verizon, Airtel, and Vodafone; services and software partners Google, Amazon Web Services, and CellControl; and integration partners Salesforce, ComData, and Fleetio.

### Key Resources

Azuga’s key resources are its intellectual properties and proprietary technologies, its software solutions and online platform, its IT and communications infrastructure, its sales and distribution channels, its partnerships, and its personnel.

Azuga states that its uses patented and proprietary technologies in the development and delivery of its telematics solutions. Searches of records published by the Us Patent and Trademark Office, however, identified no patent applications filed in Azuga’s name, either as applicant or assignee.

Azuga also owns and or leases various physical properties, notably its principal offices in San Jose, California, and London, UK.

### Cost Structure

Azuga incurs costs in relation to the development of its proprietary technologies and intellectual properties, the development and maintenance of its flagship cloud-based platform, the maintenance of its IT and communications infrastructure, the operation of its sales and distribution channels, the procurement of hardware and services, the management of its partners, and the retention of its personnel.

### Revenue Streams

Azuga generates revenue through the provision of various software solutions for fleet operators and commercial businesses across multiple sectors.

This notably comprises its software solutions and cloud-based telematics platform, which are accessible on a subscription basis. The Company derives its revenue under service contracts and subscriptions. The Company offers tailored quotes to its clients depending on the scale and type of their business.

Azuga remains a privately owned company and as such is not obliged to publish its financial results online. A corporate database profile estimated that the Company generates close to $2 million in annual revenue. The Company recently reported that it had doubled its revenue for a third consecutive year.
